<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Lua Device Classes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="lua-device-classes">
<span id="luascript-ref-dev"></span><h1>Lua Device Classes</h1>
<p>Several device classes and device mix-ins classes are exposed to Lua.  Devices
can be looked up by tag or enumerated.</p>
<nav class="contents local" id="contents">
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#device-enumerators" id="id25">Device enumerators</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#device" id="id26">Device</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#palette-device" id="id27">Palette device</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#screen-device" id="id28">Screen device</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#cassette-image-device" id="id29">Cassette image device</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#image-device-interface" id="id30">Image device interface</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#sound-device-interface" id="id31">Sound device interface</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#slot-device-interface" id="id32">Slot device interface</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#device-state-entry" id="id33">Device state entry</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#media-image-format" id="id34">Media image format</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#slot-option" id="id35">Slot option</a></p></li>
</ul>
</nav>
<section id="device-enumerators">
<span id="luascript-ref-devenum"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id25" role="doc-backlink">Device enumerators</a></h2>
<p>Device enumerators are special containers that allow iterating over devices and
looking up devices by tag.  A device enumerator can be created to find any kind
of device, to find devices of a particular type, or to find devices that
implement a particular interface.  When iterating using <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">pairs</span></code> or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">ipairs</span></code>,
devices are returned by walking the device tree depth-first in creation order.</p>
<p>The index get operator looks up a device by tag.  It returns <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no
device with the specified tag is found, or if the device with the specified tag
does not meet the type/interface requirements of the device enumerator.  The
complexity is O(1) if the result is cached, but an uncached device lookup is
expensive.  The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">at</span></code> method has O(n) complexity.</p>
<p>If you create a device enumerator with a starting point other than the root
machine device, passing an absolute tag or a tag containing parent references to
the index operator may return a device that would not be discovered by
iteration.  If you create a device enumerator with restricted depth, devices
that would not be found due to being too deep in the hierarchy can still be
looked up by tag.</p>
<p>Creating a device enumerator with depth restricted to zero can be used to
downcast a device or test whether a device implements a certain interface.  For
example this will test whether a device implements the media image interface:</p>
<div class="highlight-Lua notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="n">image_intf</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="n">emu</span><span class="p">.</span><span class="n">image_enumerator</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">device</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="mi">0</span><span class="p">):</span><span class="n">at</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="mi">1</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="kr">if</span> <span class="n">image_intf</span> <span class="kr">then</span>
    <span class="nb">print</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="nb">string.format</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="s2">&quot;Device %s mounts images&quot;</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="n">device</span><span class="p">.</span><span class="n">tag</span><span class="p">))</span>
<span class="kr">end</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<section id="instantiation">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.devices</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-device"><span class="std std-ref">devices</span></a> in the system.</p>
</dd>
<dt>manager.machine.palettes</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-dipalette"><span class="std std-ref">palette devices</span></a> in the system.</p>
</dd>
<dt>manager.machine.screens</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-screendev"><span class="std std-ref">screen devices</span></a> in the system.</p>
</dd>
<dt>manager.machine.cassettes</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-cassdev"><span class="std std-ref">cassette image devices</span></a> in the system.</p>
</dd>
<dt>manager.machine.images</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-diimage"><span class="std std-ref">media image devices</span></a> in the system.</p>
</dd>
<dt>manager.machine.slots</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-dislot"><span class="std std-ref">slot devices</span></a> in the system.</p>
</dd>
<dt>manager.machine.sounds</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-disound"><span class="std std-ref">sound devices</span></a> in the system.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.device_enumerator(device, [depth])</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-device"><span class="std std-ref">devices</span></a> in the sub-tree starting at the
specified device.  The specified device will be included.  If the depth is
provided, it must be an integer specifying the maximum number of levels to
iterate below the specified device (i.e. 1 will limit iteration to the
device and its immediate children).</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.palette_enumerator(device, [depth])</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-dipalette"><span class="std std-ref">palette devices</span></a> in the sub-tree starting at
the specified device.  The specified device will be included if it is a
palette device.  If the depth is provided, it must be an integer specifying
the maximum number of levels to iterate below the specified device (i.e. 1
will limit iteration to the device and its immediate children).</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.screen_enumerator(device, [depth])</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-screendev"><span class="std std-ref">screen devices</span></a> in the sub-tree starting at
the specified device.  The specified device will be included if it is a
screen device.  If the depth is provided, it must be an integer specifying
the maximum number of levels to iterate below the specified device (i.e. 1
will limit iteration to the device and its immediate children).</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.cassette_enumerator(device, [depth])</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-cassdev"><span class="std std-ref">cassette image devices</span></a> in the sub-tree
starting at the specified device.  The specified device will be included if
it is a cassette image device.  If the depth is provided, it must be an
integer specifying the maximum number of levels to iterate below the
specified device (i.e. 1 will limit iteration to the device and its
immediate children).</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.image_enumerator(device, [depth])</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-diimage"><span class="std std-ref">media image devices</span></a> in the sub-tree starting
at the specified device.  The specified device will be included if it is a
media image device.  If the depth is provided, it must be an integer
specifying the maximum number of levels to iterate below the specified
device (i.e. 1 will limit iteration to the device and its immediate
children).</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.slot_enumerator(device, [depth])</dt><dd><p>Returns a device enumerator that will iterate over
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-dislot"><span class="std std-ref">slot devices</span></a> in the sub-tree starting at the
specified device.  The specified device will be included if it is a slot
device.  If the depth is provided, it must be an integer specifying the
maximum number of levels to iterate below the specified device (i.e. 1 will
limit iteration to the device and its immediate children).</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="device">
<span id="luascript-ref-device"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id26" role="doc-backlink">Device</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_t</span></code> class, which is a base of all device classes.</p>
<section id="id1">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag]</dt><dd><p>Gets a device by tag relative to the root machine device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no
such device exists.</p>
</dd>
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag]:subdevice(tag)</dt><dd><p>Gets a device by tag relative to another arbitrary device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no
such device exists.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="methods">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>device:subtag(tag)</dt><dd><p>Converts a tag relative to the device to an absolute tag.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device:siblingtag(tag)</dt><dd><p>Converts a tag relative to the device’s parent device to an absolute tag.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device:memshare(tag)</dt><dd><p>Gets a <a class="reference internal" href="ref-mem.xhtml#luascript-ref-memshare"><span class="std std-ref">memory share</span></a> by tag relative to the
device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no such memory share exists.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device:membank(tag)</dt><dd><p>Gets a <a class="reference internal" href="ref-mem.xhtml#luascript-ref-membank"><span class="std std-ref">memory bank</span></a> by tag relative to the
device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no such memory bank exists.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device:memregion(tag)</dt><dd><p>Gets a <a class="reference internal" href="ref-mem.xhtml#luascript-ref-memregion"><span class="std std-ref">memory region</span></a> by tag relative to the
device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no such memory region exists.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device:ioport(tag)</dt><dd><p>Gets an <a class="reference internal" href="ref-input.xhtml#luascript-ref-ioport"><span class="std std-ref">I/O port</span></a> by tag relative to the
device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no such I/O port exists.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device:subdevice(tag)</dt><dd><p>Gets a device by tag relative to the device.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device:siblingdevice(tag)</dt><dd><p>Gets a device by tag relative to the device’s parent.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device:parameter(tag)</dt><dd><p>Gets a parameter value by tag relative to the device, or an empty string if
the parameter is not set.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="properties">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>device.tag (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The device’s absolute tag in canonical form.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device.basetag (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The last component of the device’s tag (i.e. its tag relative to its
immediate parent), or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;root&quot;</span></code> for the root machine device.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device.name (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The full display name for the device’s type.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device.shortname (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The short name of the devices type (this is used, e.g. on the command line,
when looking for resource like ROMs or artwork, and in various data files).</p>
</dd>
<dt>device.owner (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The device’s immediate parent in the device tree, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> for the root
machine device.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device.configured (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the device has completed configuration.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device.started (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the device has completed starting.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device.debug (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The <a class="reference internal" href="ref-debugger.xhtml#luascript-ref-devdebug"><span class="std std-ref">debugger interface</span></a> to the device if it
is a CPU device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if it is not a CPU device or the debugger is not
enabled.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device.state[] (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-distateentry"><span class="std std-ref">state entries</span></a> for devices that
expose the register state interface, indexed by symbol, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> for other
devices.  The index operator and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">index_of</span></code> methods have O(n) complexity;
all other supported operations have O(1) complexity.</p>
</dd>
<dt>device.spaces[] (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A table of the device’s <a class="reference internal" href="ref-mem.xhtml#luascript-ref-addrspace"><span class="std std-ref">address spaces</span></a>,
indexed by name.  Only valid for devices that implement the memory
interface.  Note that the names are specific to the device type and have no
special significance.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="palette-device">
<span id="luascript-ref-dipalette"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id27" role="doc-backlink">Palette device</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_palette_interface</span></code> class, which represents a device that
translates pen values to colours.</p>
<p>Colours are represented in alpha/red/green/blue (ARGB) format.  Channel values
range from 0 (transparent or off) to 255 (opaque or full intensity), inclusive.
Colour channel values are not pre-multiplied by the alpha value.  Channel values
are packed into the bytes of 32-bit unsigned integers, in the order alpha, red,
green, blue from most-significant to least-significant byte.</p>
<section id="id2">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.palettes[tag]</dt><dd><p>Gets a palette device by tag relative to the root machine device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code>
if no such device exists or it is not a palette device.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id3">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>palette:pen(index)</dt><dd><p>Gets the remapped pen number for the specified palette index.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:pen_color(pen)</dt><dd><p>Gets the colour for the specified pen number.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:pen_contrast(pen)</dt><dd><p>Gets the contrast value for the specified pen number.  The contrast is a
floating-point number.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:pen_indirect(index)</dt><dd><p>Gets the indirect pen index for the specified palette index.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:indirect_color(index)</dt><dd><p>Gets the indirect pen colour for the specified palette index.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:set_pen_color(pen, color)</dt><dd><p>Sets the colour for the specified pen number.  The colour may be specified
as a single packed 32-bit value; or as individual red, green and blue
channel values, in that order.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:set_pen_red_level(pen, level)</dt><dd><p>Sets the red channel value of the colour for the specified pen number.
Other channel values are not affected.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:set_pen_green_level(pen, level)</dt><dd><p>Sets the green channel value of the colour for the specified pen number.
Other channel values are not affected.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:set_pen_blue_level(pen, level)</dt><dd><p>Sets the blue channel value of the colour for the specified pen number.
Other channel values are not affected.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:set_pen_contrast(pen, factor)</dt><dd><p>Sets the contrast value for the specified pen number.  The value must be a
floating-point number.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:set_pen_indirect(pen, index)</dt><dd><p>Sets the indirect pen index for the specified pen number.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:set_indirect_color(index, color)</dt><dd><p>Sets the indirect pen colour for the specified palette index.  The colour
may be specified as a single packed 32-bit value; or as individual red,
green and blue channel values, in that order.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:set_shadow_factor(factor)</dt><dd><p>Sets the contrast value for the current shadow group.  The value must be a
floating-point number.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:set_highlight_factor(factor)</dt><dd><p>Sets the contrast value for the current highlight group.  The value must be
a floating-point number.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette:set_shadow_mode(mode)</dt><dd><p>Sets the shadow mode.  The value is the index of the desired shadow table.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id4">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>palette.palette (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The underlying <a class="reference internal" href="ref-render.xhtml#luascript-ref-palette"><span class="std std-ref">palette</span></a> managed by the
device.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette.entries (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The number of colour entries in the palette.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette.indirect_entries (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The number of indirect pen entries in the palette.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette.black_pen (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The index of the fixed black pen entry.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette.white_pen (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The index of the fixed white pen.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette.shadows_enabled (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether shadow colours are enabled.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette.highlights_enabled (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether highlight colours are enabled.</p>
</dd>
<dt>palette.device (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The underlying <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-device"><span class="std std-ref">device</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="screen-device">
<span id="luascript-ref-screendev"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id28" role="doc-backlink">Screen device</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">screen_device</span></code> class, which represents an emulated video output.</p>
<section id="id5">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.screens[tag]</dt><dd><p>Gets a screen device by tag relative to the root machine device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code>
if no such device exists or it is not a screen device.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="base-classes">
<h3>Base classes</h3>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-device"><span class="std std-ref">Device</span></a></p></li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="id6">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl>
<dt>screen:orientation()</dt><dd><p>Returns the rotation angle in degrees (will be one of 0, 90, 180 or 270),
whether the screen is flipped left-to-right, and whether the screen is
flipped top-to-bottom.  This is the final screen orientation after the
screen orientation specified in the machine configuration and the rotation
for the system driver are applied.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen:time_until_pos(v, [h])</dt><dd><p>Gets the time remaining until the raster reaches the specified position.  If
the horizontal component of the position is not specified, it defaults to
zero (0, i.e. the beginning of the line).  The result is a floating-point
number in units of seconds.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen:time_until_vblank_start()</dt><dd><p>Gets the time remaining until the start of the vertical blanking interval.
The result is a floating-point number in units of seconds.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen:time_until_vblank_end()</dt><dd><p>Gets the time remaining until the end of the vertical blanking interval.
The result is a floating-point number in units of seconds.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen:snapshot([filename])</dt><dd><p>Saves a screen snapshot in PNG format.  If no filename is supplied, the
configured snapshot path and name format will be used.  If the supplied
filename is not an absolute path, it is interpreted relative to the first
configured snapshot path.  The filename may contain conversion specifiers
that will be replaced by the system name or an incrementing number.</p>
<p>Returns a file error if opening the snapshot file failed, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code>
otherwise.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen:pixel(x, y)</dt><dd><p>Gets the pixel at the specified location.  Coordinates are in pixels, with
the origin at the top left corner of the visible area, increasing to the
right and down.  Returns either a palette index or a colour in RGB format
packed into a 32-bit integer.  Returns zero (0) if the specified point is
outside the visible area.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen:pixels()</dt><dd><p>Returns all visible pixels, the visible area width and visible area height.</p>
<p>Pixels are returned as 32-bit integers packed into a binary string in host
Endian order.  Pixels are organised in row-major order, from left to right
then top to bottom.  Pixels values are either palette indices or colours in
RGB format packed into 32-bit integers.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen:draw_box(left, top, right, bottom, [line], [fill])</dt><dd><p>Draws an outlined rectangle with edges at the specified positions.</p>
<p>Coordinates are floating-point numbers in units of emulated screen pixels,
with the origin at (0, 0).  Note that emulated screen pixels often aren’t
square.  The coordinate system is rotated if the screen is rotated, which is
usually the case for vertical-format screens.  Before rotation, the origin
is at the top left, and coordinates increase to the right and downwards.
Coordinates are limited to the screen area.</p>
<p>The fill and line colours are in alpha/red/green/blue (ARGB) format.
Channel values are in the range 0 (transparent or off) to 255 (opaque or
full intensity), inclusive.  Colour channel values are not pre-multiplied by
the alpha value.  The channel values must be packed into the bytes of a
32-bit unsigned integer, in the order alpha, red, green, blue from
most-significant to least-significant byte.  If the line colour is not
provided, the UI text colour is used; if the fill colour is not provided,
the UI background colour is used.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen:draw_line(x0, y0, x1, y1, [color])</dt><dd><p>Draws a line from (x0, y0) to (x1, y1).</p>
<p>Coordinates are floating-point numbers in units of emulated screen pixels,
with the origin at (0, 0).  Note that emulated screen pixels often aren’t
square.  The coordinate system is rotated if the screen is rotated, which is
usually the case for vertical-format screens.  Before rotation, the origin
is at the top left, and coordinates increase to the right and downwards.
Coordinates are limited to the screen area.</p>
<p>The line colour is in alpha/red/green/blue (ARGB) format.  Channel values
are in the range 0 (transparent or off) to 255 (opaque or full intensity),
inclusive.  Colour channel values are not pre-multiplied by the alpha value.
The channel values must be packed into the bytes of a 32-bit unsigned
integer, in the order alpha, red, green, blue from most-significant to
least-significant byte.  If the line colour is not provided, the UI text
colour is used.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen:draw_text(x|justify, y, text, [foreground], [background])</dt><dd><p>Draws text at the specified position.  If the screen is rotated the text
will be rotated.</p>
<p>If the first argument is a number, the text will be left-aligned at this X
coordinate.  If the first argument is a string, it must be <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;left&quot;</span></code>,
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;center&quot;</span></code> or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;right&quot;</span></code> to draw the text left-aligned at the
left edge of the screen, horizontally centred on the screen, or
right-aligned at the right edge of the screen, respectively.  The second
argument specifies the Y coordinate of the maximum ascent of the text.</p>
<p>Coordinates are floating-point numbers in units of emulated screen pixels,
with the origin at (0, 0).  Note that emulated screen pixels often aren’t
square.  The coordinate system is rotated if the screen is rotated, which is
usually the case for vertical-format screens.  Before rotation, the origin
is at the top left, and coordinates increase to the right and downwards.
Coordinates are limited to the screen area.</p>
<p>The foreground and background colours are in alpha/red/green/blue (ARGB)
format.  Channel values are in the range 0 (transparent or off) to 255
(opaque or full intensity), inclusive.  Colour channel values are not
pre-multiplied by the alpha value.  The channel values must be packed into
the bytes of a 32-bit unsigned integer, in the order alpha, red, green, blue
from most-significant to least-significant byte.  If the foreground colour
is not provided, the UI text colour is used; if the background colour is not
provided, it is fully transparent.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id7">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>screen.width (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The width of the bitmap produced by the emulated screen in pixels.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.height (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The height of the bitmap produced by the emulated screen in pixels.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.refresh (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The screen’s configured refresh rate in Hertz (this may not reflect the
current value).</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.refresh_attoseconds (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The screen’s configured refresh interval in attoseconds (this may not
reflect the current value).</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.xoffset (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The screen’s default X position offset.  This is a floating-point number
where one (1) corresponds to the X size of the screen’s container.  This may
be useful for restoring the default after adjusting the X offset via the
screen’s container.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.yoffset (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The screen’s default Y position offset.  This is a floating-point number
where one (1) corresponds to the Y size of the screen’s container.  This may
be useful for restoring the default after adjusting the Y offset via the
screen’s container.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.xscale (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The screen’s default X scale factor, as a floating-point number.  This may
be useful for restoring the default after adjusting the X scale via the
screen’s container.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.yscale (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The screen’s default Y scale factor, as a floating-point number.  This may
be useful for restoring the default after adjusting the Y scale via the
screen’s container.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.pixel_period (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The interval taken to draw a horizontal pixel, as a floating-point number in
units of seconds.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.scan_period (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The interval taken to draw a scan line (including the horizontal blanking
interval), as a floating-point number in units of seconds.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.frame_period (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The interval taken to draw a complete frame (including blanking intervals),
as a floating-point number in units of seconds.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.frame_number (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The current frame number for the screen.  This increments monotonically each
frame interval.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.container (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The <a class="reference internal" href="ref-render.xhtml#luascript-ref-rendercontainer"><span class="std std-ref">render container</span></a> used to draw the
screen.</p>
</dd>
<dt>screen.palette (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-dipalette"><span class="std std-ref">palette device</span></a> used to translate pixel
values to colours, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if the screen uses a direct colour pixel
format.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="cassette-image-device">
<span id="luascript-ref-cassdev"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id29" role="doc-backlink">Cassette image device</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">cassette_image_device</span></code> class, representing a compact cassette
mechanism typically used by a home computer for program storage.</p>
<section id="id8">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.cassettes[tag]</dt><dd><p>Gets a cassette image device by tag relative to the root machine device, or
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no such device exists or it is not a cassette image device.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id9">
<h3>Base classes</h3>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-device"><span class="std std-ref">Device</span></a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-diimage"><span class="std std-ref">Image device interface</span></a></p></li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="id10">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>cassette:stop()</dt><dd><p>Disables playback.</p>
</dd>
<dt>cassette:play()</dt><dd><p>Enables playback.  The cassette will play if the motor is enabled.</p>
</dd>
<dt>cassette:forward()</dt><dd><p>Sets forward play direction.</p>
</dd>
<dt>cassette:reverse()</dt><dd><p>Sets reverse play direction.</p>
</dd>
<dt>cassette:seek(time, whence)</dt><dd><p>Jump to the specified position on the tape.  The time is a floating-point
number in units of seconds, relative to the point specified by the whence
argument.  The whence argument must be one of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;set&quot;</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;cur&quot;</span></code> or
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;end&quot;</span></code> to seek relative to the start of the tape, the current position,
or the end of the tape, respectively.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id11">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>cassette.is_stopped (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the cassette is stopped (i.e. not recording and
not playing).</p>
</dd>
<dt>cassette.is_playing (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether playback is enabled (i.e. the cassette will
play if the motor is enabled).</p>
</dd>
<dt>cassette.is_recording (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether recording is enabled (i.e. the cassette will
record if the motor is enabled).</p>
</dd>
<dt>cassette.motor_state (read/write)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the cassette motor is enabled.</p>
</dd>
<dt>cassette.speaker_state (read/write)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the cassette speaker is enabled.</p>
</dd>
<dt>cassette.position (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The current position as a floating-point number in units of seconds relative
to the start of the tape.</p>
</dd>
<dt>cassette.length (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The length of the tape as a floating-point number in units of seconds, or
zero (0) if no tape image is mounted.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="image-device-interface">
<span id="luascript-ref-diimage"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id30" role="doc-backlink">Image device interface</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_image_interface</span></code> class which is a mix-in implemented by
devices that can load media image files.</p>
<section id="id12">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.images[tag]</dt><dd><p>Gets an image device by tag relative to the root machine device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code>
if no such device exists or it is not a media image device.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id13">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>image:load(filename)</dt><dd><p>Loads the specified file as a media image.  Returns <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no error
or a string describing an error if an error occurred.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image:load_software(name)</dt><dd><p>Loads a media image described in a software list.  Returns <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no
error or a string describing an error if an error occurred.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image:unload()</dt><dd><p>Unloads the mounted image.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image:create(filename)</dt><dd><p>Creates and mounts a media image file with the specified name.  Returns
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no error or a string describing an error if an error
occurred.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image:display()</dt><dd><p>Returns a “front panel display” string for the device, if supported.  This
can be used to show status information, like the current head position or
motor state.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image:add_media_change_notifier(callback)</dt><dd><p>Add a callback to receive notifications when a media image is loaded or
unloaded for the device.  The callback is passed a single string argument
which will be <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;loaded&quot;</span></code> if a media image has been loaded or
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;unloaded&quot;</span></code> if the previously loaded media image has been unloaded.
Returns a <a class="reference internal" href="ref-core.xhtml#luascript-ref-notifiersub"><span class="std std-ref">notifier subscription</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id14">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>image.is_readable (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the device supports reading.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.is_writeable (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the device supports writing.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.must_be_loaded (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the device requires a media image to be loaded
in order to start.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.is_reset_on_load (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the device requires a hard reset to change
media images (usually for cartridge slots that contain hardware in addition
to memory chips).</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.image_type_name (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A string for categorising the media device.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.instance_name (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The instance name of the device in the current configuration.  This is used
for setting the media image to load on the command line or in INI files.
This is not stable, it may have a number appended that may change depending
on slot configuration.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.brief_instance_name (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The brief instance name of the device in the current configuration.  This is
used for setting the media image to load on the command line or in INI
files.  This is not stable, it may have a number appended that may change
depending on slot configuration.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.formatlist[] (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-imagefmt"><span class="std std-ref">media image formats</span></a> supported by the
device, indexed by name.  The index operator and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">index_of</span></code> methods have
O(n) complexity; all other supported operations have O(1) complexity.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.exists (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether a media image file is mounted.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.readonly (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether a media image file is mounted in read-only
mode.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.filename (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The full path to the mounted media image file, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no media image
is mounted.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.crc (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The 32-bit cyclic redundancy check of the content of the mounted image file
if the mounted media image was not loaded from a software list, is mounted
read-only and is not a CD-ROM, or zero (0) otherwise.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.loaded_through_softlist (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the mounted media image was loaded from a
software list, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code> if no media image is mounted.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.software_list_name (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The short name of the software list if the mounted media image was loaded
from a software list.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.software_longname (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The full name of the software item if the mounted media image was loaded
from a software list, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> otherwise.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.software_publisher (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The publisher of the software item if the mounted media image was loaded
from a software list, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> otherwise.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.software_year (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The release year of the software item if the mounted media image was loaded
from a software list, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> otherwise.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.software_parent (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The short name of the parent software item if the mounted media image was
loaded from a software list, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> otherwise.</p>
</dd>
<dt>image.device (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The underlying <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-device"><span class="std std-ref">device</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="sound-device-interface">
<span id="luascript-ref-disound"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id31" role="doc-backlink">Sound device interface</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_sound_interface</span></code> class which is a mix-in implemented by
devices that input and/or output sound.</p>
<section id="id15">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.sounds[tag]</dt><dd><p>Gets an sound device by tag relative to the root machine device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code>
if no such device exists or it is not a slot device.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id16">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>sound.inputs (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Number of sound inputs of the device.</p>
</dd>
<dt>sound.outputs (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Number of sound outputs of the device.</p>
</dd>
<dt>sound.microphone (read-only)</dt><dd><p>True if the device is a microphone, false otherwise</p>
</dd>
<dt>sound.speaker (read-only)</dt><dd><p>True if the device is a speaker, false otherwise</p>
</dd>
<dt>sound.io_positions[] (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Non-empty only for microphones and speakers, indicates the positions of
the inputs or outputs as (x, y, z) coordinates (e.g. [-0.2, 0.0, 1.0])</p>
</dd>
<dt>sound.io_names[] (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Non-empty only for microphones and speakers, indicates the positions of
the inputs or outputs as strings (e.g. Front Left)</p>
</dd>
<dt>sound.hook</dt><dd><p>A boolean indicating whether to tap the output samples of this device in
the global sound hook.</p>
</dd>
<dt>sound.device (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The underlying <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-device"><span class="std std-ref">device</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="slot-device-interface">
<span id="luascript-ref-dislot"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id32" role="doc-backlink">Slot device interface</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_slot_interface</span></code> class which is a mix-in implemented by
devices that instantiate a user-specified child device.</p>
<section id="id17">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.slots[tag]</dt><dd><p>Gets an slot device by tag relative to the root machine device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code>
if no such device exists or it is not a slot device.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id18">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>slot.fixed (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether this is a slot with a card specified in machine
configuration that cannot be changed by the user.</p>
</dd>
<dt>slot.has_selectable_options (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the slot has any user-selectable options (as
opposed to options that can only be selected programmatically, typically for
fixed slots or to load media images).</p>
</dd>
<dt>slot.options[] (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-slotopt"><span class="std std-ref">slot options</span></a> describing the child devices
that can be instantiated by the slot, indexed by option value.  The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">at</span></code>
and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">index_of</span></code> methods have O(n) complexity; all other supported
operations have O(1) complexity.</p>
</dd>
<dt>slot.device (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The underlying <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-device"><span class="std std-ref">device</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="device-state-entry">
<span id="luascript-ref-distateentry"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id33" role="doc-backlink">Device state entry</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_state_entry</span></code> class, which allows access to named
registers exposed by a <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-device"><span class="std std-ref">device</span></a>.  Supports
conversion to string for display.</p>
<section id="id19">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag].state[symbol]</dt><dd><p>Gets a state entry for a given device by symbol.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id20">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>entry.value (read/write)</dt><dd><p>The numeric value of the state entry, as either an integer or floating-point
number.  Attempting to set the value of a read-only state entry raises an
error.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.symbol (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The state entry’s symbolic name.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.visible (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the state entry should be displayed in the
debugger register view.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.writeable (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether it is possible to modify the state entry’s
value.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.is_float (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the state entry’s value is a floating-point
number.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.datamask (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A bit mask of the valid bits of the value for integer state entries.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.datasize (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The size of the underlying value in bytes for integer state entries.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.max_length (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The maximum display string length for the state entry.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="media-image-format">
<span id="luascript-ref-imagefmt"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id34" role="doc-backlink">Media image format</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">image_device_format</span></code> class, which describes a media file format
supported by a <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-diimage"><span class="std std-ref">media image device</span></a>.</p>
<section id="id21">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.images[tag].formatlist[name]</dt><dd><p>Gets a media image format supported by a given device by name.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id22">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>format.name (read-only)</dt><dd><p>An abbreviated name used to identify the format.  This often matches the
primary filename extension used for the format.</p>
</dd>
<dt>format.description (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The full display name of the format.</p>
</dd>
<dt>format.extensions[] (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Yields a table of filename extensions used for the format.</p>
</dd>
<dt>format.option_spec (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A string describing options available when creating a media image using this
format.  The string is not intended to be human-readable.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="slot-option">
<span id="luascript-ref-slotopt"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id35" role="doc-backlink">Slot option</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_slot_interface::slot_option</span></code> class, which represents a
child device that a <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-dislot"><span class="std std-ref">slot device</span></a> can be
configured to instantiate.</p>
<section id="id23">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.slots[tag].options[name]</dt><dd><p>Gets a slot option for a given <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-dislot"><span class="std std-ref">slot device</span></a> by
name (i.e. the value used to select the option).</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id24">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>option.name (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The name of the slot option.  This is the value used to select this option
on the command line or in an INI file.</p>
</dd>
<dt>option.device_fullname (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The full display name of the device type instantiated by this option.</p>
</dd>
<dt>option.device_shortname (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The short name of the device type instantiated by this option.</p>
</dd>
<dt>option.selectable (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the option may be selected by the user (options
that are not user-selectable are typically used for fixed slots or to load
media images).</p>
</dd>
<dt>option.default_bios (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The default BIOS setting for the device instantiated using this option, or
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if the default BIOS specified in the device’s ROM definitions will
be used.</p>
</dd>
<dt>option.clock (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The configured clock frequency for the device instantiated using this
option.  This is an unsigned 32-bit integer.  If the eight most-significant
bits are all set, it is a ratio of the parent device’s clock frequency, with
the numerator in bits 12-23 and the denominator in bits 0-11.  If the eight
most-significant bits are not all set, it is a frequency in Hertz.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>