<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Lua Debugger Classes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="lua-debugger-classes">
<span id="luascript-ref-debugger"></span><h1>Lua Debugger Classes</h1>
<p>Some of MAME’s core debugging features can be controlled from Lua script.  The
debugger must be enabled to use the debugger features (usually by passing
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">-debug</span></code> on the command line).</p>
<nav class="contents local" id="contents">
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#symbol-table" id="id16">Symbol table</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#parsed-expression" id="id17">Parsed expression</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#symbol-entry" id="id18">Symbol entry</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-manager" id="id19">Debugger manager</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#device-debugger-interface" id="id20">Device debugger interface</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#breakpoint" id="id21">Breakpoint</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#watchpoint" id="id22">Watchpoint</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#expression-error" id="id23">Expression error</a></p></li>
</ul>
</nav>
<section id="symbol-table">
<span id="luascript-ref-debugsymtable"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id16" role="doc-backlink">Symbol table</a></h2>
<p>Wrap’s MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">symbol_table</span></code> class, providing named symbols that can be used
in expressions.  Note that symbol tables can be created and used even when the
debugger is not enabled.</p>
<section id="instantiation">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>emu.symbol_table(machine)</dt><dd><p>Creates a new symbol table in the context of the specified machine,</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.symbol_table(parent, [device])</dt><dd><p>Creates a new symbol table with the specified parent symbol table.  If a
device is specified and it implements <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_memory_interface</span></code>, it will
be used as the base for looking up address spaces and memory regions.  Note
that if a device that does not implement <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_memory_interface</span></code> is
supplied, it will not be used (address spaces and memory regions will be
looked up relative to the root device).</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.symbol_table(device)</dt><dd><p>Creates a new symbol table in the context of the specified device.  If the
device implements <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_memory_interface</span></code>, it will be used as the base
for looking up address spaces and memory regions.  Note that if a device
that does not implement <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_memory_interface</span></code> is supplied, it will
only be used to determine the machine context (address spaces and memory
regions will be looked up relative to the root device).</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="methods">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl>
<dt>symbols:set_memory_modified_func(cb)</dt><dd><p>Set a function to call when memory is modified via the symbol table.  No
arguments are passed to the function and any return values are ignored.
Call with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> to remove the callback.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:add(name, [value])</dt><dd><p>Adds a named integer symbol.  The name must be a string.  If a value is
supplied, it must be an integer.  If a value is supplied, a read-only symbol
is added with the supplied value.  If no value is supplied, a read/write
symbol is created with and initial value of zero.  If a symbol entry with
the specified name already exists in the symbol table, it will be replaced.</p>
<p>Returns the new <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymentry"><span class="std std-ref">symbol entry</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:add(name, getter, [setter], [format])</dt><dd><p>Adds a named integer symbol using getter and optional setter callbacks.  The
name must be a string.  The getter must be a function returning an integer
for the symbol value.  If supplied, the setter must be a function that
accepts a single integer argument for the new value of the symbol.  A format
string for displaying the symbol value may optionally be supplied.  If a
symbol entry with the specified name already exists in the symbol table, it
will be replaced.</p>
<p>Returns the new <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymentry"><span class="std std-ref">symbol entry</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:add(name, minparams, maxparams, execute)</dt><dd><p>Adds a named function symbol.  The name must be a string.  The minimum and
maximum numbers of parameters must be integers.  If a symbol entry with the
specified name already exists in the symbol table, it will be replaced.</p>
<p>Returns the new <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymentry"><span class="std std-ref">symbol entry</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:find(name)</dt><dd><p>Returns the <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymentry"><span class="std std-ref">symbol entry</span></a> with the
specified name, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if there is no symbol with the specified name in
the symbol table.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:find_deep(name)</dt><dd><p>Returns the <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymentry"><span class="std std-ref">symbol entry</span></a> with the
specified name, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if there is no symbol with the specified name in
the symbol table or any of its parent symbol tables.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:value(name)</dt><dd><p>Returns the integer value of the symbol with the specified name, or zero if
there is no symbol with the specified name in the symbol table or any of its
parent symbol tables.  Raises an error if the symbol with specified name is
a function symbol.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:set_value(name, value)</dt><dd><p>Sets the value of the symbol with the specified name.  Raises an error if
the symbol with the specified name is a read-only integer symbol or if it is
a function symbol.  Has no effect if there is no symbol with the specified
name in the symbol table or any of its parent symbol tables.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:memory_value(name, space, offset, size, disable_se)</dt><dd><p>Read a value from memory.  Supply the name or tag of the address space or
memory region to read from, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> to use the address space or memory
region implied by the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">space</span></code> argument.  See
<a class="reference internal" href="../debugger/index.xhtml#debugger-express-mem"><span class="std std-ref">memory accesses in debugger expressions</span></a> for
access type specifications that can be used for the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">space</span></code> argument.
The access size is specified in bytes, and must be 1, 2, 4 or 8.  The
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">disable_se</span></code> argument specifies whether memory access side effects should
be disabled.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:set_memory_value(name, space, offset, value, size, disable_se)</dt><dd><p>Write a value to memory.  Supply the name or tag of the address space or
memory region to write to, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> to use the address space or memory
region implied by the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">space</span></code> argument.  See
<a class="reference internal" href="../debugger/index.xhtml#debugger-express-mem"><span class="std std-ref">memory accesses in debugger expressions</span></a> for
access type specifications that can be used for the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">space</span></code> argument.
The access size is specified in bytes, and must be 1, 2, 4 or 8.  The
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">disable_se</span></code> argument specifies whether memory access side effects should
be disabled.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:read_memory(space, address, size, apply_translation)</dt><dd><p>Read a value from an address space.  The access size is specified in bytes,
and must be 1, 2, 4, or 8.  If the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">apply_translation</span></code> argument is true,
the address will be translated with debug read intention.  Returns a value
of the requested size with all bits set if address translation fails.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:write_memory(space, address, data, size, apply_translation)</dt><dd><p>Write a value to an address space.  The access size is specified in bytes,
and must be 1, 2, 4, or 8.  If the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">apply_translation</span></code> argument is true,
the address will be translated with debug write intention.  The symbol
table’s memory modified function will be called after the value is written.
The value will not be written and the symbol table’s memory modified
function will not be called if address translation fails.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="properties">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>symbols.entries[]</dt><dd><p>The <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymentry"><span class="std std-ref">symbol entries</span></a> in the symbol table,
indexed by name.  The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">at</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">index_of</span></code> methods have O(n) complexity;
all other supported operations have O(1) complexity.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols.parent (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The parent symbol table, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if the symbol table has no parent.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="parsed-expression">
<span id="luascript-ref-debugexpression"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id17" role="doc-backlink">Parsed expression</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">parsed_expression</span></code> class, which represents a tokenised debugger
expression.  Note that parsed expressions can be created and used even when the
debugger is not enabled.</p>
<section id="id1">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>emu.parsed_expression(symbols)</dt><dd><p>Creates an empty expression that will use the supplied
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymtable"><span class="std std-ref">symbol table</span></a> to look up symbols.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.parsed_expression(symbols, string, [default_base])</dt><dd><p>Creates an expression by parsing the supplied string, looking up symbols in
the supplied <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymtable"><span class="std std-ref">symbol table</span></a>.  If the
default base for interpreting integer literals is not supplied, 16 is used
(hexadecimal).  Raises an <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugexpressionerror"><span class="std std-ref">expression error</span></a> if the string contains syntax errors
or uses undefined symbols.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id2">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>expression:set_default_base(base)</dt><dd><p>Set the default base for interpreting numeric literals.  The base must be a
positive integer.</p>
</dd>
<dt>expression:parse(string)</dt><dd><p>Parse a debugger expression string.  Replaces the current contents of the
expression if it is not empty.  Raises an <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugexpressionerror"><span class="std std-ref">expression error</span></a> if the string contains syntax errors
or uses undefined symbols.  The previous content of the expression is not
preserved when attempting to parse an invalid expression string.</p>
</dd>
<dt>expression:execute()</dt><dd><p>Evaluates the expression, returning an unsigned integer result.  Raises an
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugexpressionerror"><span class="std std-ref">expression error</span></a> if the
expression cannot be evaluated (e.g. attempting to call a function with an
invalid number of arguments).</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id3">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>expression.is_empty (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the expression contains no tokens.</p>
</dd>
<dt>expression.original_string (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The original string that was parsed to create the expression.</p>
</dd>
<dt>expression.symbols (read/write)</dt><dd><p>The <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymtable"><span class="std std-ref">symbol table</span></a> used for to look up
symbols in the expression.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="symbol-entry">
<span id="luascript-ref-debugsymentry"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id18" role="doc-backlink">Symbol entry</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">symbol_entry</span></code> class, which represents an entry in a
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymtable"><span class="std std-ref">symbol table</span></a>.  Note that symbol entries
must not be used after the symbol table they belong to is destroyed.</p>
<section id="id4">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>symbols:add(name, [value])</dt><dd><p>Adds an integer symbol to a
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymtable"><span class="std std-ref">symbol table</span></a>, returning the new symbol
entry.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:add(name, getter, [setter], [format])</dt><dd><p>Adds an integer symbol to a
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymtable"><span class="std std-ref">symbol table</span></a>, returning the new symbol
entry.</p>
</dd>
<dt>symbols:add(name, minparams, maxparams, execute)</dt><dd><p>Adds function symbol to a
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugsymtable"><span class="std std-ref">symbol table</span></a>, returning the new symbol
entry.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id5">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>entry.name (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The name of the symbol entry.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.format (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The format string used to convert the symbol entry to text for display.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.is_function (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the symbol entry is a callable function.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.is_lval (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the symbol entry is an integer symbol that can
be set (i.e. whether it can be used on the left-hand side of assignment
expressions).</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.value (read/write)</dt><dd><p>The integer value of the symbol entry.  Attempting to set the value raises
an error if the symbol entry is read-only.  Attempting to get or set the
value of a function symbol raises an error.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="debugger-manager">
<span id="luascript-ref-debugman"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id19" role="doc-backlink">Debugger manager</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">debugger_manager</span></code> class, providing the main interface to control
the debugger.</p>
<section id="id6">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.debugger</dt><dd><p>Returns the global debugger manager instance, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if the debugger is
not enabled.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id7">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>debugger:command(str)</dt><dd><p>Execute a debugger console command.  The argument is the command string.
The output is sent to both the debugger console and the Lua console.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id8">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>debugger.consolelog[] (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The lines in the console log (output from debugger commands).  This
container only supports index and length operations.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debugger.errorlog[] (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The lines in the error log (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">logerror</span></code> output).  This container only
supports index and length operations.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debugger.visible_cpu (read/write)</dt><dd><p>The CPU device with debugger focus.  Changes become visible in the debugger
console after the next step.  Setting to a device that is not a CPU has no
effect.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debugger.execution_state (read/write)</dt><dd><p>Either <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;run&quot;</span></code> if the emulated system is running, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;stop&quot;</span></code> if it is
stopped in the debugger.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="device-debugger-interface">
<span id="luascript-ref-devdebug"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id20" role="doc-backlink">Device debugger interface</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_debug</span></code> class, providing the debugger interface to an
emulated CPU device.</p>
<section id="id9">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag].debug</dt><dd><p>Returns the debugger interface for an emulated CPU device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if the
device is not a CPU.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id10">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl>
<dt>debug:step([cnt])</dt><dd><p>Step by the specified number of instructions.  If the instruction count is
not provided, it defaults to a single instruction.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debug:go()</dt><dd><p>Run the emulated CPU.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debug:bpset(addr, [cond], [act])</dt><dd><p>Set a breakpoint at the specified address, with an optional condition and
action.  If the action is not specified, it defaults to just breaking into
the debugger.  Returns the breakpoint number for the new breakpoint.</p>
<p>If specified, the condition must be a debugger expression that will be
evaluated each time the breakpoint is hit.  Execution will only be stopped
if the expression evaluates to a non-zero value.  If the condition is not
specified, it defaults to always active.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debug:bpenable([bp])</dt><dd><p>Enable the specified breakpoint, or all breakpoints for the device if no
breakpoint number is specified.  Returns whether the specified number
matched a breakpoint if a breakpoint number is specified, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no
breakpoint number is specified.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debug:bpdisable([bp])</dt><dd><p>Disable the specified breakpoint, or all breakpoints for the device if no
breakpoint number is specified.  Returns whether the specified number
matched a breakpoint if a breakpoint number is specified, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no
breakpoint number is specified.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debug:bpclear([bp])</dt><dd><p>Clear the specified breakpoint, or all breakpoints for the device if no
breakpoint number is specified.  Returns whether the specified number
matched a breakpoint if a breakpoint number is specified, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no
breakpoint number is specified.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debug:bplist()</dt><dd><p>Returns a table of breakpoints for the device.  The keys are the breakpoint
numbers, and the values are
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-breakpoint"><span class="std std-ref">breakpoint objects</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debug:wpset(space, type, addr, len, [cond], [act])</dt><dd><p>Set a watchpoint over the specified address range, with an optional
condition and action.  The type must be <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;r&quot;</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;w&quot;</span></code> or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;rw&quot;</span></code> for a
read, write or read/write breakpoint.  If the action is not specified, it
defaults to just breaking into the debugger.  Returns the watchpoint number
for the new watchpoint.</p>
<p>If specified, the condition must be a debugger expression that will be
evaluated each time the breakpoint is hit.  Execution will only be stopped
if the expression evaluates to a non-zero value.  The variable 'wpaddr' is
set to the address that actually triggered the watchpoint, the variable
'wpdata' is set to the data that is being read or written, and the variable
'wpsize' is set to the size of the data in bytes.  If the condition is not
specified, it defaults to always active.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debug:wpenable([wp])</dt><dd><p>Enable the specified watchpoint, or all watchpoints for the device if no
watchpoint number is specified.  Returns whether the specified number
matched a watchpoint if a watchpoint number is specified, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no
watchpoint number is specified.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debug:wpdisable([wp])</dt><dd><p>Disable the specified watchpoint, or all watchpoints for the device if no
watchpoint number is specified.  Returns whether the specified number
matched a watchpoint if a watchpoint number is specified, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no
watchpoint number is specified.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debug:wpclear([wp])</dt><dd><p>Clear the specified watchpoint, or all watchpoints for the device if no
watchpoint number is specified.  Returns whether the specified number
matched a watchpoint if a watchpoint number is specified, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no
watchpoint number is specified.</p>
</dd>
<dt>debug:wplist(space)</dt><dd><p>Returns a table of watchpoints for the specified address space of the
device.  The keys are the watchpoint numbers, and the values are
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-watchpoint"><span class="std std-ref">watchpoint objects</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="breakpoint">
<span id="luascript-ref-breakpoint"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id21" role="doc-backlink">Breakpoint</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">debug_breakpoint</span></code> class, representing a breakpoint for an
emulated CPU device.</p>
<section id="id11">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag].debug:bplist()[bp]</dt><dd><p>Gets the specified breakpoint for an emulated CPU device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no
breakpoint corresponds to the specified index.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id12">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>breakpoint.index (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The breakpoint’s index.  The can be used to enable, disable or clear the
breakpoint via the
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-devdebug"><span class="std std-ref">CPU debugger interface</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>breakpoint.enabled (read/write)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the breakpoint is currently enabled.</p>
</dd>
<dt>breakpoint.address (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The breakpoint’s address.</p>
</dd>
<dt>breakpoint.condition (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A debugger expression evaluated each time the breakpoint is hit.  The action
will only be triggered if this expression evaluates to a non-zero value.  An
empty string if no condition was specified.</p>
</dd>
<dt>breakpoint.action (read-only)</dt><dd><p>An action the debugger will run when the breakpoint is hit and the condition
evaluates to a non-zero value.  An empty string if no action was specified.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="watchpoint">
<span id="luascript-ref-watchpoint"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id22" role="doc-backlink">Watchpoint</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">debug_watchpoint</span></code> class, representing a watchpoint for an
emulated CPU device.</p>
<section id="id13">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag].debug:wplist(space)[wp]</dt><dd><p>Gets the specified watchpoint for an address space of an emulated CPU
device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no watchpoint in the address space corresponds to the
specified index.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id14">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>watchpoint.index (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The watchpoint’s index.  The can be used to enable, disable or clear the
watchpoint via the
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-devdebug"><span class="std std-ref">CPU debugger interface</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>watchpoint.enabled (read/write)</dt><dd><p>A Boolean indicating whether the watchpoint is currently enabled.</p>
</dd>
<dt>watchpoint.type (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Either <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;r&quot;</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;w&quot;</span></code> or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;rw&quot;</span></code> for a read, write or read/write
watchpoint.</p>
</dd>
<dt>watchpoint.address (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The starting address of the watchpoint’s address range.</p>
</dd>
<dt>watchpoint.length (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The length of the watchpoint’s address range.</p>
</dd>
<dt>watchpoint.condition (read-only)</dt><dd><p>A debugger expression evaluated each time the watchpoint is hit.  The action
will only be triggered if this expression evaluates to a non-zero value.  An
empty string if no condition was specified.</p>
</dd>
<dt>watchpoint.action (read-only)</dt><dd><p>An action the debugger will run when the watchpoint is hit and the condition
evaluates to a non-zero value.  An empty string if no action was specified.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="expression-error">
<span id="luascript-ref-debugexpressionerror"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id23" role="doc-backlink">Expression error</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">expression_error</span></code> class, describing an error occurring while
parsing or executing a debugger expression.  Raised on errors when using
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-debugexpression"><span class="std std-ref">parsed expressions</span></a>.  Can be converted to
a string to provide a description of the error.</p>
<section id="id15">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>err.code (read-only)</dt><dd><p>An implementation-dependent number representing the category of error.
Should not be displayed to the user.</p>
</dd>
<dt>err.offset (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The offset within the expression string where the error was encountered.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>