<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Lua Memory System Classes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="lua-memory-system-classes">
<span id="luascript-ref-mem"></span><h1>Lua Memory System Classes</h1>
<p>MAME’s Lua interface exposes various memory system objects, including address
spaces, memory shares, memory banks, and memory regions.  Scripts can read from
and write to the emulated memory system.</p>
<nav class="contents local" id="contents">
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#memory-manager" id="id20">Memory manager</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#address-space" id="id21">Address space</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#pass-through-handler" id="id22">Pass-through handler</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#address-map" id="id23">Address map</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#address-map-entry" id="id24">Address map entry</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#address-map-handler-data" id="id25">Address map handler data</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#memory-share" id="id26">Memory share</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#memory-bank" id="id27">Memory bank</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#memory-region" id="id28">Memory region</a></p></li>
</ul>
</nav>
<section id="memory-manager">
<span id="luascript-ref-memman"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id20" role="doc-backlink">Memory manager</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">memory_manager</span></code> class, which allows the memory shares, banks and
regions in a system to be enumerated.</p>
<section id="instantiation">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.memory</dt><dd><p>Gets the global memory manager instance for the emulated system.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="properties">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>memory.shares[]</dt><dd><p>The <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-memshare"><span class="std std-ref">memory shares</span></a> in the system, indexed by
absolute tag.  The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">at</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">index_of</span></code> methods have O(n) complexity; all
other supported operations have O(1) complexity.</p>
</dd>
<dt>memory.banks[]</dt><dd><p>The <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-membank"><span class="std std-ref">memory banks</span></a> in the system, indexed by
absolute tag.  The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">at</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">index_of</span></code> methods have O(n) complexity; all
other supported operations have O(1) complexity.</p>
</dd>
<dt>memory.regions[]</dt><dd><p>The <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-memregion"><span class="std std-ref">memory regions</span></a> in the system, indexed
by absolute tag.  The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">at</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">index_of</span></code> methods have O(n) complexity;
all other supported operations have O(1) complexity.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="address-space">
<span id="luascript-ref-addrspace"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id21" role="doc-backlink">Address space</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">address_space</span></code> class, which represents an address space
belonging to a device.</p>
<section id="id1">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag].spaces[name]</dt><dd><p>Gets the address space with the specified name for a given device.  Note
that names are specific to the device type.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="methods">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl>
<dt>space:read_i{8,16,32,64}(addr)</dt><dd><p>Reads a signed integer value of the size in bits from the specified address.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:read_u{8,16,32,64}(addr)</dt><dd><p>Reads an unsigned integer value of the size in bits from the specified
address.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:write_i{8,16,32,64}(addr, val)</dt><dd><p>Writes a signed integer value of the size in bits to the specified address.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:write_u{8,16,32,64}(addr, val)</dt><dd><p>Writes an unsigned integer value of the size in bits to the specified
address.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:readv_i{8,16,32,64}(addr)</dt><dd><p>Reads a signed integer value of the size in bits from the specified virtual
address.  The address is translated with the debug read intent.  Returns
zero if address translation fails.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:readv_u{8,16,32,64}(addr)</dt><dd><p>Reads an unsigned integer value of the size in bits from the specified
virtual address.  The address is translated with the debug read intent.
Returns zero if address translation fails.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:writev_i{8,16,32,64}(addr, val)</dt><dd><p>Writes a signed integer value of the size in bits to the specified virtual
address.  The address is translated with the debug write intent.  Does not
write if address translation fails.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:writev_u{8,16,32,64}(addr, val)</dt><dd><p>Writes an unsigned integer value of the size in bits to the specified
virtual address.  The address is translated with the debug write intent.
Does not write if address translation fails.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:read_direct_i{8,16,32,64}(addr)</dt><dd><p>Reads a signed integer value of the size in bits from the specified address
one byte at a time by obtaining a read pointer for each byte address.  If
a read pointer cannot be obtained for a byte address, the corresponding
result byte will be zero.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:read_direct_u{8,16,32,64}(addr)</dt><dd><p>Reads an unsigned integer value of the size in bits from the specified
address one byte at a time by obtaining a read pointer for each byte
address.  If a read pointer cannot be obtained for a byte address, the
corresponding result byte will be zero.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:write_direct_i{8,16,32,64}(addr, val)</dt><dd><p>Writes a signed integer value of the size in bits to the specified address
one byte at a time by obtaining a write pointer for each byte address.  If
a write pointer cannot be obtained for a byte address, the corresponding
byte will not be written.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:write_direct_u{8,16,32,64}(addr, val)</dt><dd><p>Writes an unsigned integer value of the size in bits to the specified
address one byte at a time by obtaining a write pointer for each byte
address.  If a write pointer cannot be obtained for a byte address, the
corresponding byte will not be written.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:read_range(start, end, width, [step])</dt><dd><p>Reads a range of addresses as a binary string.  The end address must be
greater than or equal to the start address.  The width must be 8, 16, 30 or
64.  If the step is provided, it must be a positive number of elements.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:add_change_notifier(callback)</dt><dd><p>Add a callback to receive notifications for handler changes in address
space.  The callback function is passed a single string as an argument,
either <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">r</span></code> if read handlers have potentially changed, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">w</span></code> if write
handlers have potentially changed, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rw</span></code> if both read and write handlers
have potentially changed.</p>
<p>Returns a <a class="reference internal" href="ref-core.xhtml#luascript-ref-notifiersub"><span class="std std-ref">notifier subscription</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:install_read_tap(start, end, name, callback)</dt><dd><p>Installs a <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-addrspacetap"><span class="std std-ref">pass-through handler</span></a> that
will receive notifications on reads from the specified range of addresses in
the address space.  The start and end addresses are inclusive.  The name
must be a string, and the callback must be a function.  Returns the new
pass-through handler.</p>
<p>The callback is passed three arguments for the access offset, the data read,
and the memory access mask.  The offset is the absolute offset into the
address space.  To modify the data being read, return the modified value
from the callback function as an integer.  If the callback does not return
an integer, the data will not be modified.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space:install_write_tap(start, end, name, callback)</dt><dd><p>Installs a <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-addrspacetap"><span class="std std-ref">pass-through handler</span></a> that
will receive notifications on write to the specified range of addresses in
the address space.  The start and end addresses are inclusive.  The name
must be a string, and the callback must be a function.  Returns the new
pass-through handler.</p>
<p>The callback is passed three arguments for the access offset, the data
written, and the memory access mask.  The offset is the absolute offset into
the address space.  To modify the data being written, return the modified
value from the callback function as an integer.  If the callback does not
return an integer, the data will not be modified.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id2">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>space.name (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The display name for the address space.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space.shift (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The address granularity for the address space specified as the shift
required to translate a byte address to a native address.  Positive values
shift towards the most significant bit (left) and negative values shift
towards the least significant bit (right).</p>
</dd>
<dt>space.index (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The zero-based space index.  Some space indices have special meanings for
the debugger.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space.address_mask (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The address mask for the space.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space.data_width (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The data width for the space in bits.</p>
</dd>
<dt>space.endianness (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The Endianness of the space (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;big&quot;</span></code> or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;little&quot;</span></code>).</p>
</dd>
<dt>space.map (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The configured <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-addrmap"><span class="std std-ref">address map</span></a> for the space or
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="pass-through-handler">
<span id="luascript-ref-addrspacetap"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id22" role="doc-backlink">Pass-through handler</a></h2>
<p>Tracks a pass-through handler installed in an
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-addrspace"><span class="std std-ref">address space</span></a>.  A memory pass-through handler
receives notifications on accesses to a specified range of addresses, and can
modify the data that is read or written if desired.  Note that pass-through handler
callbacks are not run as coroutines.</p>
<section id="id3">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag].spaces[name]:install_read_tap(start, end, name, callback)</dt><dd><p>Installs a pass-through handler that will receive notifications on reads
from the specified range of addresses in an
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-addrspace"><span class="std std-ref">address space</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag].spaces[name]:install_write_tap(start, end, name, callback)</dt><dd><p>Installs a pass-through handler that will receive notifications on writes to
the specified range of addresses in an
<a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-addrspace"><span class="std std-ref">address space</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id4">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>passthrough:reinstall()</dt><dd><p>Reinstalls the pass-through handler in the address space.  May be necessary
if the handler is removed due to other changes to handlers in the address
space.</p>
</dd>
<dt>passthrough:remove()</dt><dd><p>Removes the pass-through handler from the address space.  The associated
callback will not be called in response to future memory accesses.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id5">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>passthrough.addrstart (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The inclusive start address of the address range monitored by the
pass-through handler (i.e. the lowest address that the handler will be
notified for).</p>
</dd>
<dt>passthrough.addrend (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The inclusive end address of the address range monitored by the pass-through
handler (i.e. the highest address that the handler will be notified for).</p>
</dd>
<dt>passthrough.name (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The display name for the pass-through handler.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="address-map">
<span id="luascript-ref-addrmap"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id23" role="doc-backlink">Address map</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">address_map</span></code> class, used to configure handlers for an address
space.</p>
<section id="id6">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag].spaces[name].map</dt><dd><p>Gets the configured address map for an address space, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no map
is configured.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id7">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>map.spacenum (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The address space number of the address space the map is associated with.</p>
</dd>
<dt>map.device (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The device that owns the address space the map is associated with.</p>
</dd>
<dt>map.unmap_value (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The constant value to return from unmapped reads.</p>
</dd>
<dt>map.global_mask (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Global mask to be applied to all addresses when accessing the space.</p>
</dd>
<dt>map.entries[] (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The configured <a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-addrmapentry"><span class="std std-ref">entries</span></a> in the address
map.  Uses 1-based integer indices.  The index operator and the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">at</span></code>
method have O(n) complexity.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="address-map-entry">
<span id="luascript-ref-addrmapentry"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id24" role="doc-backlink">Address map entry</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">address_map_entry</span></code> class, representing an entry in a configured
address map.</p>
<section id="id8">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag].spaces[name].map.entries[index]</dt><dd><p>Gets an entry from the configured map for an address space.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id9">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>entry.address_start (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Start address of the entry’s range.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.address_end (read-only)</dt><dd><p>End address of the entry’s range (inclusive).</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.address_mirror (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Address mirror bits.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.address_mask (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Address mask bits.  Only valid for handlers.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.mask (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Lane mask, indicating which data lines on the bus are connected to the
handler.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.cswidth (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The trigger width for a handler that isn’t connected to all the data lines.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.read (read-only)</dt><dd><p><a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-memhandlerdata"><span class="std std-ref">Additional data</span></a> for the read handler.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.write (read-only)</dt><dd><p><a class="reference internal" href="#luascript-ref-memhandlerdata"><span class="std std-ref">Additional data</span></a> for the write handler.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.share (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Memory share tag for making RAM entries accessible or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.region (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Explicit memory region tag for ROM entries, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code>.  For ROM entries,
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> infers the region from the device tag.</p>
</dd>
<dt>entry.region_offset (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Starting offset in memory region for ROM entries.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="address-map-handler-data">
<span id="luascript-ref-memhandlerdata"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id25" role="doc-backlink">Address map handler data</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">map_handler_data</span></code> class, which provides configuration data to
handlers in address maps.</p>
<section id="id10">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag].spaces[name].map.entries[index].read</dt><dd><p>Gets the read handler data for an address map entry.</p>
</dd>
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag].spaces[name].map.entries[index].write</dt><dd><p>Gets the write handler data for an address map entry.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id11">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>data.handlertype (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Handler type.  Will be one of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;none&quot;</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;ram&quot;</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;rom&quot;</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;nop&quot;</span></code>,
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;unmap&quot;</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;delegate&quot;</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;port&quot;</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;bank&quot;</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;submap&quot;</span></code>, or
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;unknown&quot;</span></code>.  Note that multiple handler type values can yield
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;delegate&quot;</span></code> or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;unknown&quot;</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>data.bits (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Data width for the handler in bits.</p>
</dd>
<dt>data.name (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Display name for the handler, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>data.tag (read-only)</dt><dd><p>Tag for I/O ports and memory banks, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="memory-share">
<span id="luascript-ref-memshare"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id26" role="doc-backlink">Memory share</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">memory_share</span></code> class, representing a named allocated memory zone.</p>
<section id="id12">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.memory.shares[tag]</dt><dd><p>Gets a memory share by absolute tag, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no such memory share
exists.</p>
</dd>
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag]:memshare(tag)</dt><dd><p>Gets a memory share by tag relative to a device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no such
memory share exists.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id13">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>share:read_i{8,16,32,64}(offs)</dt><dd><p>Reads a signed integer value of the size in bits from the specified offset
in the memory share.</p>
</dd>
<dt>share:read_u{8,16,32,64}(offs)</dt><dd><p>Reads an unsigned integer value of the size in bits from the specified
offset in the memory share.</p>
</dd>
<dt>share:write_i{8,16,32,64}(offs, val)</dt><dd><p>Writes a signed integer value of the size in bits to the specified offset in
the memory share.</p>
</dd>
<dt>share:write_u{8,16,32,64}(offs, val)</dt><dd><p>Writes an unsigned integer value of the size in bits to the specified offset
in the memory share.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id14">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>share.tag (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The absolute tag of the memory share.</p>
</dd>
<dt>share.size (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The size of the memory share in bytes.</p>
</dd>
<dt>share.length (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The length of the memory share in native width elements.</p>
</dd>
<dt>share.endianness (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The Endianness of the memory share (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;big&quot;</span></code> or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;little&quot;</span></code>).</p>
</dd>
<dt>share.bitwidth (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The native element width of the memory share in bits.</p>
</dd>
<dt>share.bytewidth (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The native element width of the memory share in bytes.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="memory-bank">
<span id="luascript-ref-membank"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id27" role="doc-backlink">Memory bank</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">memory_bank</span></code> class, representing a named memory zone
indirection.</p>
<section id="id15">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.memory.banks[tag]</dt><dd><p>Gets a memory region by absolute tag, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no such memory bank
exists.</p>
</dd>
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag]:membank(tag)</dt><dd><p>Gets a memory region by tag relative to a device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no such
memory bank exists.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id16">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>bank.tag (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The absolute tag of the memory bank.</p>
</dd>
<dt>bank.entry (read/write)</dt><dd><p>The currently selected zero-based entry number.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="memory-region">
<span id="luascript-ref-memregion"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id28" role="doc-backlink">Memory region</a></h2>
<p>Wraps MAME’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">memory_region</span></code> class, representing a memory region used to store
read-only data like ROMs or the result of fixed decryptions.</p>
<section id="id17">
<h3>Instantiation</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>manager.machine.memory.regions[tag]</dt><dd><p>Gets a memory region by absolute tag, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no such memory region
exists.</p>
</dd>
<dt>manager.machine.devices[tag]:memregion(tag)</dt><dd><p>Gets a memory region by tag relative to a device, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if no such
memory region exists.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id18">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>region:read(offs, len)</dt><dd><p>Reads up to the specified length in bytes from the specified offset in the
memory region.  The bytes read will be returned as a string.  If the
specified length extends beyond the end of the memory region, the returned
string will be shorter than requested.  Note that the data will be in host
byte order.</p>
</dd>
<dt>region:read_i{8,16,32,64}(offs)</dt><dd><p>Reads a signed integer value of the size in bits from the specified offset
in the memory region.  The offset is specified in bytes.  Reading beyond the
end of the memory region returns zero.</p>
</dd>
<dt>region:read_u{8,16,32,64}(offs)</dt><dd><p>Reads an unsigned integer value of the size in bits from the specified
offset in the memory region.  The offset is specified in bytes.  Reading
beyond the end of the memory region returns zero.</p>
</dd>
<dt>region:write_i{8,16,32,64}(offs, val)</dt><dd><p>Writes a signed integer value of the size in bits to the specified offset in
the memory region.  The offset is specified in bytes.  Attempting to write
beyond the end of the memory region has no effect.</p>
</dd>
<dt>region:write_u{8,16,32,64}(offs, val)</dt><dd><p>Writes an unsigned integer value of the size in bits to the specified offset
in the memory region.  The offset is specified in bytes.  Attempting to
write beyond the end of the memory region has no effect.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="id19">
<h3>Properties</h3>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>region.tag (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The absolute tag of the memory region.</p>
</dd>
<dt>region.size (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The size of the memory region in bytes.</p>
</dd>
<dt>region.length (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The length of the memory region in native width elements.</p>
</dd>
<dt>region.endianness (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The Endianness of the memory region (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;big&quot;</span></code> or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">&quot;little&quot;</span></code>).</p>
</dd>
<dt>region.bitwidth (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The native element width of the memory region in bits.</p>
</dd>
<dt>region.bytewidth (read-only)</dt><dd><p>The native element width of the memory region in bytes.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>