<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Lua Common Types and Globals</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="lua-common-types-and-globals">
<span id="luascript-ref-common"></span><h1>Lua Common Types and Globals</h1>
<nav class="contents local" id="contents">
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#containers" id="id1">Containers</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#emulator-interface" id="id2">Emulator interface</a></p></li>
</ul>
</nav>
<section id="containers">
<span id="luascript-ref-containers"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id1" role="doc-backlink">Containers</a></h2>
<p>Many properties yield container wrappers.  Container wrappers are cheap to
create, and provide an interface that is similar to a read-only table.  The
complexity of operations may vary.  Container wrappers usually provide most of
these operations:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>#c</dt><dd><p>Get the number of items in the container.</p>
</dd>
<dt>c[k]</dt><dd><p>Returns the item corresponding to the key <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">k</span></code>, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if the key is
not present.</p>
</dd>
<dt>pairs(c)</dt><dd><p>Iterate over container by key and value.  The key is what you would pass to
the index operator or the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">get</span></code> method to get the value.</p>
</dd>
<dt>ipairs(c)</dt><dd><p>Iterate over container by index and value.  The index is what you would pass
to the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">at</span></code> method to get the value (this may be the same as the key for
some containers).</p>
</dd>
<dt>c:empty()</dt><dd><p>Returns a Boolean indicating whether there are no items in the container.</p>
</dd>
<dt>c:get(k)</dt><dd><p>Returns the item corresponding to the key <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">k</span></code>, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if the key is
not present.  Usually equivalent to the index operator.</p>
</dd>
<dt>c:at(i)</dt><dd><p>Returns the value at the 1-based index <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">i</span></code>, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if it is out of
range.</p>
</dd>
<dt>c:find(v)</dt><dd><p>Returns the key for item <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">v</span></code>, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if it is not in the container.
The key is what you would pass to the index operator to get the value.</p>
</dd>
<dt>c:index_of(v)</dt><dd><p>Returns the 1-based index for item <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">v</span></code>, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">nil</span></code> if it is not in the
container.  The index is what you would pass to the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">at</span></code> method to get the
value.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="emulator-interface">
<span id="luascript-ref-emu"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id2" role="doc-backlink">Emulator interface</a></h2>
<p>The emulator interface <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">emu</span></code> provides access to core functionality.  Many
classes are also available as properties of the emulator interface.</p>
<section id="methods">
<h3>Methods</h3>
<dl>
<dt>emu.wait(duration, …)</dt><dd><p>Yields for the specified duration in terms of emulated time.  The duration
may be specified as an <a class="reference internal" href="ref-core.xhtml#luascript-ref-attotime"><span class="std std-ref">attotime</span></a> or a number
in seconds.  Any additional arguments are returned from the coroutine.
Returns a Boolean indicating whether the duration expired normally.</p>
<p>All outstanding calls to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">emu.wait</span></code> will return <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">false</span></code> immediately if a
saved state is loaded or the emulation session ends.  Calling this function
from callbacks that are not run as coroutines will raise an error.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.wait_next_update(…)</dt><dd><p>Yields until the next video/UI update.  Any arguments are returned from the
coroutine.  Calling this function from callbacks that are not run as coroutines
will raise an error.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.wait_next_frame(…)</dt><dd><p>Yields until the next emulated frame completes.  Any arguments are returned
from the coroutine.  Calling this function from callbacks that are not run as
coroutines will raise an error.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.add_machine_reset_notifier(callback)</dt><dd><p>Add a callback to receive notifications when the emulated system is reset.
Returns a <a class="reference internal" href="ref-core.xhtml#luascript-ref-notifiersub"><span class="std std-ref">notifier subscription</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.add_machine_stop_notifier(callback)</dt><dd><p>Add a callback to receive notifications when the emulated system is stopped.
Returns a <a class="reference internal" href="ref-core.xhtml#luascript-ref-notifiersub"><span class="std std-ref">notifier subscription</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.add_machine_pause_notifier(callback)</dt><dd><p>Add a callback to receive notifications when the emulated system is paused.
Returns a <a class="reference internal" href="ref-core.xhtml#luascript-ref-notifiersub"><span class="std std-ref">notifier subscription</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.add_machine_resume_notifier(callback)</dt><dd><p>Add a callback to receive notifications when the emulated system is resumed
after being paused.  Returns a
<a class="reference internal" href="ref-core.xhtml#luascript-ref-notifiersub"><span class="std std-ref">notifier subscription</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.add_machine_frame_notifier(callback)</dt><dd><p>Add a callback to receive notifications when an emulated frame completes.
Returns a <a class="reference internal" href="ref-core.xhtml#luascript-ref-notifiersub"><span class="std std-ref">notifier subscription</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.add_machine_pre_save_notifier(callback)</dt><dd><p>Add a callback to receive notification before the emulated system state is
saved.  Returns a
<a class="reference internal" href="ref-core.xhtml#luascript-ref-notifiersub"><span class="std std-ref">notifier subscription</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.add_machine_post_load_notifier(callback)</dt><dd><p>Add a callback to receive notification after the emulated system is restored
to a previously saved state.  Returns a
<a class="reference internal" href="ref-core.xhtml#luascript-ref-notifiersub"><span class="std std-ref">notifier subscription</span></a>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.register_sound_update(callback)</dt><dd><p>Add a callback to receive new samples that have been created.  The samples
are coming from the sound devices for which the hook property has been set
to true.  The callback gets one parameter which is a hash with device tag
as key and a (channel-sized) vector of (buffer-sized) vector of samples
in the -1..1 range.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.print_error(message)</dt><dd><p>Print an error message.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.print_warning(message)</dt><dd><p>Print a warning message.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.print_info(message)</dt><dd><p>Print an informational message.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.print_verbose(message)</dt><dd><p>Print a verbose diagnostic message (disabled by default).</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.print_debug(message)</dt><dd><p>Print a debug message (only enabled for debug builds by default).</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.lang_translate([context], message)</dt><dd><p>Look up a message with optional context in the current localised message
catalog.  Returns the message unchanged if no corresponding localised
message is found.</p>
</dd>
<dt>emu.subst_env(string)</dt><dd><p>Substitute environment variables in a string.  The syntax is dependent on
the host operating system.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>