<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>SDL-Specific Command-line Options</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="sdl-specific-command-line-options">
<h1>SDL-Specific Command-line Options</h1>
<p>This section contains configuration options that are specific to any build
supported by SDL (including Windows when built with SDL instead of native).</p>
<section id="performance-options">
<h2>Performance Options</h2>
<p id="mame-scommandline-sdlvideofps"><strong>-[no]sdlvideofps</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Enable output of benchmark data on the SDL video subsystem, including your
system’s video driver, X server (if applicable), and OpenGL stack in
<strong>-video opengl</strong> mode.</p>
</div></blockquote>
</section>
<section id="video-options">
<h2>Video Options</h2>
<p id="mame-scommandline-centerh"><strong>-[no]centerh</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Center horizontally within the view area. Default is ON (<strong>-centerh</strong>).</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p id="mame-scommandline-centerv"><strong>-[no]centerv</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Center vertically within the view area. Default is ON (<strong>-centerv</strong>).</p>
</div></blockquote>
</section>
<section id="video-soft-specific-options">
<h2>Video Soft-Specific Options</h2>
<p id="mame-scommandline-scalemode"><strong>-scalemode</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Scale mode: none, async, yv12, yuy2, yv12x2, yuy2x2 (<strong>-video soft</strong> only).
Default is <em>none</em>.</p>
</div></blockquote>
</section>
<section id="sdl-keyboard-mapping">
<h2>SDL Keyboard Mapping</h2>
<p id="mame-scommandline-keymap"><strong>-keymap</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Enable keymap.  Default is OFF (<strong>-nokeymap</strong>)</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p id="mame-scommandline-keymapfile"><strong>-keymap_file</strong> <em>&lt;file&gt;</em></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Keymap file name.  Default is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">keymap.dat</span></code>.</p>
</div></blockquote>
</section>
<section id="sdl-input-options">
<h2>SDL Input Options</h2>
<p id="mame-scommandline-enabletouch"><strong>-enable_touch</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Enable support for touch input.  If this option is switched off, mouse input
simulated from touch devices will be used instead.  Default is OFF
(<strong>-noenable_touch</strong>)</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p id="mame-scommandline-sixaxis"><strong>-sixaxis</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Use special handling for PlayStation 3 SixAxis controllers.  May cause
undesirable behaviour with other controllers.  Only affects the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">sdljoy</span></code>
joystick provider.  Default is OFF (<strong>-nosixaxis</strong>)</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p id="mame-scommandline-duallightgun"><strong>-[no]dual_lightgun</strong> / <strong>-[no]dual</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Controls whether or not MAME attempts to track two lightguns that appear as
a single mouse.  This option requires the <a class="reference internal" href="commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-nolightgun"><span class="std std-ref">lightgun option</span></a> to be on and the <a class="reference internal" href="commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-lightgunprovider"><span class="std std-ref">lightgunprovider
option</span></a> to be set to <em>sdl</em>.</p>
<p>This option supports dual lightgun setups that work by setting the mouse
pointer location at the moment a lightgun trigger is activated.  The primary
and secondary triggers on the first lightgun correspond to the first and
second mouse buttons, and the primary and secondary triggers on the second
lightgun correspond to the third and fourth mouse buttons.</p>
<p>The default is OFF (<strong>-nodual_lightgun</strong>).</p>
</div></blockquote>
</section>
<section id="sdl-lightgun-mapping">
<h2>SDL Lightgun Mapping</h2>
<div class="line-block" id="mame-scommandline-lightgunindex">
<div class="line"><br /></div>
<div class="line"><strong>-lightgun_index1</strong> <em>&lt;name&gt;</em></div>
<div class="line"><strong>-lightgun_index2</strong> <em>&lt;name&gt;</em></div>
<div class="line">...</div>
<div class="line"><strong>-lightgun_index8</strong> <em>&lt;name&gt;</em></div>
<div class="line"><br /></div>
</div>
<p>Device name or ID mapped to a given lightgun slot.</p>
</section>
<section id="sdl-low-level-driver-options">
<h2>SDL Low-level Driver Options</h2>
<p id="mame-scommandline-videodriver"><strong>-videodriver</strong> <em>&lt;driver&gt;</em></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>SDL video driver to use ('x11', 'directfb', ... or '<em>auto</em>' for SDL default)</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p id="mame-scommandline-audiodriver"><strong>-audiodriver</strong> <em>&lt;driver&gt;</em></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>SDL audio driver to use ('alsa', 'arts', ... or '<em>auto</em>' for SDL default)</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p id="mame-scommandline-gllib"><strong>-gl_lib</strong> <em>&lt;driver&gt;</em></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Alternative <strong>libGL.so</strong> to use; '<em>auto</em>' for system default</p>
</div></blockquote>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>