<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Windows-Specific Command-line Options</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="windows-specific-command-line-options">
<h1>Windows-Specific Command-line Options</h1>
<p>This section contains configuration options that are specific to the native
(non-SDL) Windows version of MAME.</p>
<section id="performance-options">
<h2>Performance options</h2>
<p id="mame-wcommandline-priority"><strong>-priority</strong> <em>&lt;priority&gt;</em></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Sets the thread priority for the MAME threads. By default the priority is
left alone to guarantee proper cooperation with other applications. The
valid range is -15 to 1, with 1 being the highest priority. The default is
<em>0</em> (<em>NORMAL priority</em>).</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p id="mame-wcommandline-profile"><strong>-profile</strong> <em>[n]</em></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Enables profiling, specifying the stack depth of <em>[n]</em> to track.</p>
</div></blockquote>
</section>
<section id="full-screen-options">
<h2>Full screen options</h2>
<p id="mame-wcommandline-triplebuffer"><strong>-[no]triplebuffer</strong> / <strong>-[no]tb</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Enables or disables “triple buffering”.  Normally, MAME just draws directly
to the screen, without any fancy buffering.  But with this option enabled,
MAME creates three buffers to draw to, and cycles between them in order.  It
attempts to keep things flowing such that one buffer is currently displayed,
the second buffer is waiting to be displayed, and the third buffer is being
drawn to. <strong>-triplebuffer</strong> will override <strong>-waitvsync</strong>, if the buffer is
successfully created.  This option does not work with <strong>-video gdi</strong>. The
default is OFF (<strong>-notriplebuffer</strong>).</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p id="mame-wcommandline-fullscreenbrightness"><strong>-full_screen_brightness</strong> <em>&lt;value&gt;</em> / <strong>-fsb</strong> <em>&lt;value&gt;</em></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Controls the brightness, or black level, of the entire display.  The
standard value is 1.0.  Lower values (down to 0.1) will produce a darkened
display, while higher values (up to 2.0) will give a brighter display.  Note
that not all video cards have hardware to support this option.  This option
does not work with <strong>-video gdi</strong>.  The default is <em>1.0</em>.</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p id="mame-wcommandline-fullscreencontrast"><strong>-full_screen_contrast</strong> <em>&lt;value&gt;</em> / <strong>-fsc</strong> <em>&lt;value&gt;</em></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Controls the contrast, or white level, of the entire display.  The standard
value is 1.0.  Lower values (down to 0.1) will produce a dimmer display,
while higher values (up to 2.0) will give a more saturated display.  Note
that not all video cards have hardware to support this option.  This option
does not work with <strong>-video gdi</strong>.  The default is <em>1.0</em>.</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p id="mame-wcommandline-fullscreengamma"><strong>-full_screen_gamma</strong> <em>&lt;value&gt;</em> / <strong>-fsg</strong> <em>&lt;value&gt;</em></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Controls the gamma, which produces a potentially nonlinear black to white
ramp, for the entire display.  The standard value is 1.0, which gives a
linear ramp from black to white.  Lower values (down to 0.1) will increase
the nonlinearity toward black, while higher values (up to 3.0) will push the
nonlinearity toward white.  Note that not all video cards have hardware to
support this option.  This option does not work with <strong>-video gdi</strong>.  The
default is <em>1.0</em>.</p>
</div></blockquote>
</section>
<section id="input-device-options">
<h2>Input device options</h2>
<p id="mame-wcommandline-duallightgun"><strong>-[no]dual_lightgun</strong> / <strong>-[no]dual</strong></p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Controls whether or not MAME attempts to track two lightguns that appear as
a single mouse.  This option requires the <a class="reference internal" href="commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-nolightgun"><span class="std std-ref">lightgun option</span></a> to be on and the <a class="reference internal" href="commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-lightgunprovider"><span class="std std-ref">lightgunprovider
option</span></a> to be set to <em>win32</em>.</p>
<p>This option supports certain older dual lightgun setups that work by setting
the mouse pointer location at the moment a lightgun trigger is activated.
The primary and secondary triggers on the first lightgun correspond to the
first and second mouse buttons, and the primary and secondary triggers on
the second lightgun correspond to the third and fourth mouse buttons.</p>
<p>If you have multiple lightguns connected, you will probably just need to
enable the <a class="reference internal" href="commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-nolightgun"><span class="std std-ref">lightgun option</span></a>, use the
default <a class="reference internal" href="commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-lightgunprovider"><span class="std std-ref">lightgunprovider option</span></a>
of <em>rawinput</em>, and configure each lightgun individually.</p>
<p>The default is OFF (<strong>-nodual_lightgun</strong>).</p>
</div></blockquote>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>