<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>How does MAME look for files?</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="how-does-mame-look-for-files">
<span id="assetsearch"></span><h1>How does MAME look for files?</h1>
<nav class="contents local" id="contents">
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#introduction" id="id1">Introduction</a></p>
<ul>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#terminology" id="id2">Terminology</a></p></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#search-path-options" id="id3">Search path options</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#archive-files" id="id4">Archive files</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#how-does-mame-search-for-media" id="id5">How does MAME search for media?</a></p>
<ul>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#system-roms" id="id6">System ROMs</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#device-roms" id="id7">Device ROMs</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#software-item-roms" id="id8">Software Item ROMs</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#chd-format-disk-images" id="id9">CHD format disk images</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#loose-software" id="id10">Loose software</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#diagnosing-missing-media" id="id11">Diagnosing missing media</a></p></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</nav>
<section id="introduction">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id1" role="doc-backlink">Introduction</a></h2>
<p>Unlike typical desktop applications where you browse your disk and select a file
to open or a location to save to, MAME has settings to tell it where to look for
the files it needs.  You can change these settings by starting MAME without
specifying a system, selecting <strong>Configure Options</strong> from the system selection
menu, and then selecting <strong>Configure Directories</strong> (remember to select <strong>Save
Configuration</strong> if you want to keep your changes).  You can also change settings
by editing your mame.ini and ui.ini files directly, or specify settings on the
command line.  For information on available options for controlling where MAME
searches for files, see <a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-pathoptions"><span class="std std-ref">Core Search Path Options</span></a>.</p>
<section id="terminology">
<h3><a class="toc-backref" href="#id2" role="doc-backlink">Terminology</a></h3>
<p>It’s necessary to understand some MAME-specific terminology used in the
explanations here:</p>
<dl>
<dt>System</dt><dd><p>A system is a complete machine that can be emulated by MAME.  Some systems
run fixed software, while others can load software from software list items
and/or media files.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Device</dt><dd><p>An emulated component that can be used by multiple systems, or by other
devices.  Some devices require ROM dumps, and some devices allow software
from additional software lists to be used with a system.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Parent system</dt><dd><p>MAME uses so-called parent/clone relationships to group related systems.
One system in the group is chosen to be the <em>parent</em> and the others are
called <em>clones</em>.  (The choice of the parent system is somewhat arbitrary.
It is not necessarily the original or definitive variant.)</p>
</dd>
<dt>BIOS system</dt><dd><p>A system configured with no software.  This is mostly applicable for arcade
systems that used interchangeable game cartridges or ROM boards.  Note that
this is <em>not</em> the same as the BIOS selection settings that allow you to
select system boot ROMs or device firmware.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Software item</dt><dd><p>A software package described in a software list.  Software items may consist
of multiple <em>parts</em> that can be mounted independently.  Due to the large
variety of media supported by MAME, software parts may use different
<em>loaders</em>.  These include the <em>ROM loader</em>, typically used for cartridge
media, and the <em>image file loader</em>, used for software parts consisting of a
single media image (including floppy disk and cassette media).</p>
</dd>
<dt>Parent software item</dt><dd><p>Related software items are grouped using parent/clone relationships, in a
similar way to related systems.  This is usually used to group different
versions or releases of the same piece of software.  If a software item has
a parent item, it will always be in the same software list.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Short name</dt><dd><p>MAME uses <em>short names</em> to uniquely identify systems and devices, to
uniquely identify software lists, to uniquely identify software items within
a software list, and to uniquely identify software parts within a software
item.</p>
<p>You can see the short name for a system by highlighting it in the system
selection menu, ensuring the info panel is visible on the right, and
showing the <strong>General Info</strong> in the <strong>Infos</strong> tab.  For example the short
name for the Nintendo Virtual Boy is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">vboy</span></code>.  System and device short
names can also be seen in the output of various command line verbs,
including <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">-listxml</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">-listfull</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">-listroms</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">-listcrc</span></code>.</p>
<p>You can see the short names for a software item and the software list it
belongs to by highlighting it in the software selection menu, ensuring the
info panel is visible on the right, and showing the <strong>Software List Info</strong>
in the <strong>Infos</strong> tab.  For example the short name for Macintosh System
Software 6.0.3 is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">sys603</span></code> and the short name of the software list it
belongs to is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mac_flop</span></code>.  Software list short names match their file
names (for example the Sega Mega Drive/Genesis cartridge software list is
called <strong>megadriv.xml</strong> and its short name is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">megadriv</span></code>).  You can also
see the short names software lists, software items and parts by finding the
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attributes in the XML software list files.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>
<section id="search-path-options">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id3" role="doc-backlink">Search path options</a></h2>
<p>Most options for specifying locations to search allow multiple directories to be
specified, separated by semicolon (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">;</span></code>) characters.  Environment variables are
expanded, using CMD shell syntax on Windows, or Bourne shell syntax on UNIX-like
systems.</p>
<p>Relative paths are interpreted relative to the current working directory at the
time of use.  If you start MAME by double-clicking it in Windows Explorer, the
working directory is set to the folder containing the MAME executable.  If you
start MAME by double-clicking it in the macOS Finder or from most Linux desktop
environments, the working directory will be set to your home directory.</p>
</section>
<section id="archive-files">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id4" role="doc-backlink">Archive files</a></h2>
<p>MAME can load files from PKZIP and 7-Zip archives (these must have <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">.zip</span></code> and
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">.7z</span></code> file name extensions, respectively).  A number of extensions to the
PKZIP format are supported, including Zip64 for large archives, NTFS timestamps,
and LZMA compression.  Only ASCII or UTF-8 filenames are supported in PKZIP
archives (7-Zip archives always use UTF-16 filenames).</p>
<p>MAME <em>does not</em> load files from nested archives.  MAME will not load files
stored in a PKZIP or 7-Zip archive which is itself contained within a PKZIP or
7-Zip archive.  Multi-segment archives and encrypted archives are not supported.
The legacy “implode” compression method in PKZIP archives is not supported.</p>
<p>MAME may perform poorly with archives containing large numbers of files.  Files
compressed using the LZMA compression algorithm are inherently more
CPU-intensive to decompress than files compressed using simpler algorithms.
MAME does not take the archive layout into consideration when loading files from
archives, so using “solid compression” often results in MAME decompressing the
same data repeatedly when loading media.</p>
</section>
<section id="how-does-mame-search-for-media">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id5" role="doc-backlink">How does MAME search for media?</a></h2>
<p>Use the <a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-rompath"><span class="std std-ref">rompath</span></a> option sets the folders where
searches for ROM dumps, disk images, and other media.  By default MAME looks for
media in a folder called <strong>roms</strong> in the working directory.  For the purpose of
this discussion, floppy disk, cassette, paper tape and other media images that
are not stored in CHD format are treated as ROM dumps.</p>
<p>When searching for system, device and software ROM dumps, MAME treats folders
and archives inside the folders configured in you <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rompath</span></code> setting as
equivalent, but remember the limitation that MAME cannot load files from an
archive contained within another archive.  MAME looks for a folder first, then a
PKZIP archive, and finally a 7-Zip archive.  When searching for a ROM dump in an
archive, MAME first looks for a file with the expected name and CRC.  If no
matching file is found, MAME looks for a file with the expected CRC ignoring the
name.  If no matching file is found, MAME finally looks for a file with the
expected name, ignoring the CRC.</p>
<p>While MAME can load disk images in CHD format from inside archives, this is not
recommended.  CHD files contain compressed data stored in a format allowing
random access.  If a CHD format disk image is stored in a PKZIP or 7-Zip
archive, MAME needs to load the entire file into memory in order to use it.  For
hard disk or LaserDisc images in particular, this will likely use an excessive
amount of swap file space, hurting performance and possibly reducing the life
expectancy of your disks or SSDs.  It’s best to keep CHD format disk images in
folders.</p>
<section id="system-roms">
<h3><a class="toc-backref" href="#id6" role="doc-backlink">System ROMs</a></h3>
<p>For each folder configured in your <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rompath</span></code> setting, MAME looks for system
ROMs in the following locations:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>A folder or archive matching the short name of the system itself.</p></li>
<li><p>A folder or archive matching the short name of the system’s parent system, if
applicable.</p></li>
<li><p>A folder or archive matching the short name of the corresponding BIOS system,
if applicable.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Using Shiritsu Justice Gakuen as an example, MAME will search for system ROMs as
follows:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>The short name of the system is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">jgakuen</span></code>, so MAME will look for a folder
called <strong>jgakuen</strong>, a PKZIP archive called <strong>jgakuen.zip</strong>, or a 7-Zip archive
called <strong>jgakuen.7z</strong>.</p></li>
<li><p>The parent system is the European version of Rival Schools, which has the
short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rvschool</span></code>, so MAME will look for a folder called <strong>rvschool</strong>, a
PKZIP archive called <strong>rvschool.zip</strong>, or a 7-Zip archive called
<strong>rvschool.7z</strong>.</p></li>
<li><p>The corresponding BIOS system is the Capcom ZN2 board, which has the short
name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">coh3002c</span></code>, so MAME will look for a folder called <strong>coh3002c</strong>, a PKZIP
archive called <strong>coh3002c.zip</strong>, or a 7-Zip archive called <strong>coh3002c.7z</strong>.</p></li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="device-roms">
<h3><a class="toc-backref" href="#id7" role="doc-backlink">Device ROMs</a></h3>
<p>For each folder configured in your <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rompath</span></code> setting, MAME looks for device
ROMs in the following locations:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>A folder or archive matching the short name of the device.</p></li>
<li><p>A folder or archive matching the short name of the device’s parent ROM device,
if applicable.</p></li>
<li><p>A folder or archive matching the short name of the system.</p></li>
<li><p>A folder or archive matching the short name of the system’s parent system, if
applicable.</p></li>
<li><p>A folder or archive matching the short name of the corresponding BIOS system,
if applicable.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Using a Unitron 1024 Macintosh clone with a French Macintosh Plus keyboard with
integrated numeric keypad attached as an example, MAME will look for the
keyboard microcontroller ROM as follows:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>The short name of the French Macintosh Plus keyboard is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mackbd_m0110a_f</span></code>,
so MAME will look for a folder called <strong>mackbd_m0110a_f</strong>, a PKZIP archive
called <strong>mackbd_m0110a_f.zip</strong>, or a 7-Zip archive called
<strong>mackbd_m0110a_f.7z</strong>.</p></li>
<li><p>The parent ROM device is the U.S. Macintosh Plus keyboard with integrated
numeric keypad, which has the short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mackbd_m0110a</span></code>, so MAME will look
for a folder called <strong>mackbd_m0110a</strong>, a PKZIP archive called
<strong>mackbd_m0110a.zip</strong>, or a 7-Zip archive called <strong>mackbd_m0110a.7z</strong>.</p></li>
<li><p>The short name of the Unitron 1024 system is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">utrn1024</span></code>, so MAME will look
for a folder called <strong>utrn1024</strong>, a PKZIP archive called <strong>utrn1024.zip</strong>, or
a 7-Zip archive called <strong>utrn1024.7z</strong>.</p></li>
<li><p>The parent system of the Unitron 1024 is the Macintosh Plus, which has the
short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">macplus</span></code>, so MAME will look for a folder called <strong>macplus</strong>, a
PKZIP archive called <strong>macplus.zip</strong>, or a 7-Zip archive called
<strong>macplus.7z</strong>.</p></li>
<li><p>There is no corresponding BIOS system, so MAME will not search in any further
locations.</p></li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="software-item-roms">
<h3><a class="toc-backref" href="#id8" role="doc-backlink">Software Item ROMs</a></h3>
<p>For each folder configured in your <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rompath</span></code> setting, MAME looks for software
item ROMs in the following locations:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>A folder or archive matching the short name of the software item inside a
folder matching the short name of the software list (or a folder matching the
short name of the software item inside an archive matching the name of the
software list).</p></li>
<li><p>A folder or archive matching the short name of the parent software item inside
a folder matching the short name of the software list, if applicable (or a
folder matching the short name of the parent software item in an archive
matching the name of the software list).</p></li>
<li><p>A folder or archive matching the short name of the software item.  (This is
for convenience for software items that also run as stand-alone systems with
the same short name, such as Neo Geo games.)</p></li>
<li><p>A folder or archive matching the short name of the parent software item, if
applicable.  (This is for convenience for software items that also run as
stand-alone systems with the same short name, such as Neo Geo games.)</p></li>
</ul>
<p>If you load the German version of Dune II from the Mega Drive/Genesis cartridge
software list in the PAL Mega Drive console, MAME will look for the cartridge
ROM as follows:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>The short name of the software item for the German version of Dune II is
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dune2g</span></code> and the short name of the Mega Drive/Genesis cartridge software
list is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">megadriv</span></code>, so MAME will look for a folder called <strong>dune2g</strong>, a
PKZIP archive called <strong>dune2g.zip</strong> or a 7-Zip archive called <strong>dune2g.7z</strong>
inside a folder called <strong>megadriv</strong> (or a folder called <strong>dune2g</strong> inside a
PKZIP archive called <strong>megadriv.zip</strong> or a 7-Zip archive called
<strong>megadriv.7z</strong>).</p></li>
<li><p>The parent software item is the general European PAL version of Dune II in the
same software list, which has the short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dune2</span></code>, so MAME will look for
a folder called <strong>dune2</strong>, a PKZIP archive called <strong>dune2.zip</strong> or a 7-Zip
archive called <strong>dune2.7z</strong> inside a folder called <strong>megadriv</strong> (or a folder
called <strong>dune2</strong> inside a PKZIP archive called <strong>megadriv.zip</strong> or a 7-Zip
archive called <strong>megadriv.7z</strong>).</p></li>
<li><p>Next MAME will ignore the short name of the software list and use the short
name of the software item only, looking for a folder called <strong>dune2g</strong>, a
PKZIP archive called <strong>dune2g.zip</strong> or a 7-Zip archive called <strong>dune2g.7z</strong>.</p></li>
<li><p>Still ignoring the short name of the software list, MAME will use the short
name of the parent software item only, looking for a folder called <strong>dune2</strong>,
a PKZIP archive called <strong>dune2.zip</strong> or a 7-Zip archive called <strong>dune2.7z</strong>.</p></li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="chd-format-disk-images">
<h3><a class="toc-backref" href="#id9" role="doc-backlink">CHD format disk images</a></h3>
<p>MAME searches for system, device and software item CHD format disk images in
almost the same way it searches for ROMs, with just a few differences:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>For systems and software items, MAME will check the parent system or software
item if applicable for alternate names for a disk image with the same content
digest.  This allows you to keep a single copy of a CHD format disk image for
a parent system or software item and any clones that expect a disk image with
the same content, irrespective of the name the clones expect.</p></li>
<li><p>For software items, MAME will look for CHD format disk images in a folder
matching the short name of the software list.  This is for convenience when
all items in a software list only contain a single CHD format disk image each.</p></li>
<li><p>We recommend that you <em>do not</em> store CHD format disk images inside PKZIP or
7-Zip archives.  However, if you do decide to do this, MAME will only find CHD
format disk images inside archives with an expected name.  This is because
MAME uses the content digest from the CHD header, not the checksum of the CHD
file itself.  The checksum of the CHD file itself can vary depending on
compression options.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>To save space, MAME allows delta CHD files to be used for clone systems, devices
with parent ROM devices and clone software items.  The delta CHD file must use a
CHD format disk image from the parent system, parent ROM device or parent
software item as its parent CHD file.  The space saved depends on how much
content can be reused from the parent CHD file.  MAME searches the same
locations for parent CHD files that it would search for the disk image itself.</p>
</section>
<section id="loose-software">
<h3><a class="toc-backref" href="#id10" role="doc-backlink">Loose software</a></h3>
<p>Many systems support loading media from a file by supplying the path on the
command line for one of the media options.  Relative paths are interpreted
relative to the current working directory.</p>
<p>You can specify a path to a file inside a PKZIP or 7-Zip archive similarly to
specifying a path to a file in a folder (keep in mind that you can have at most
a single archive file in a path, as MAME does not support loading files from
archives contained within other archives).  If you specify a path to a PKZIP or
7-Zip archive, MAME will use the first file found in the archive (this depends
on the order that files are stored in the archive – it’s most useful for
archives containing a single file).</p>
<p>Start the Nintendo Entertainment System/Famicom system with the file
<strong>amazon_diet_EN.nes</strong> mounted in the cartridge slot:</p>
<div class="highlight-bash notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>mame<span class="w"> </span>nes<span class="w"> </span>-cart<span class="w"> </span>amazon_diet_EN.nes
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Start the Osborne-1 system with the first file in the archive <strong>os1xutls.zip</strong>
mounted in the first floppy disk drive:</p>
<div class="highlight-bash notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>mame<span class="w"> </span>osborne1<span class="w"> </span>-flop1<span class="w"> </span>os1xutils.zip
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Start the Macintosh Plus system with the file <strong>system tools.img</strong> in the
archive <strong>sys603.zip</strong> mounted in the first floppy disk drive:</p>
<div class="highlight-bash notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>mame<span class="w"> </span>macplus<span class="w"> </span>-flop1<span class="w"> </span><span class="s2">&quot;sys603.zip/system tools.img&quot;</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
</section>
<section id="diagnosing-missing-media">
<h3><a class="toc-backref" href="#id11" role="doc-backlink">Diagnosing missing media</a></h3>
<p>When starting a system from MAME’s system selection menu or software selection
menu, MAME will list any missing system or device ROM dumps or disk images, as
long as at least one ROM dump or disk image for the system is present.  For
clone systems, at least one ROM dump or disk image <em>unique to the clone</em> must be
present for MAME to list missing ROM dumps and disk images.</p>
<p>If all system and device ROM dump and disk images are present and the system is
being started with a software item, MAME will check that ROM dumps and disk
images for the software item are present.  If at least one ROM dump or disk
image for the software item is present, MAME will list any missing ROM dumps or
disk images.</p>
<p>For example if you try to start the Macintosh Plus system and the keyboard
microcontroller ROM dump is missing, MAME displays the following error message:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><p>Required ROM/disk images for the selected system are missing or incorrect.
Please acquire the correct files or select a different system.</p>
<p>341-0332-a.bin (mackbd_m0110a) - not found</p>
<p>Press any key to continue.</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p>The name of the missing ROM dump is shown (<strong>341-0332-a.bin</strong>), as well as the
short name of the device it belongs to (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mackbd_m0110a</span></code>).  When a missing ROM
dump or disk image is not specific to the selected system, the short name of the
system or device it belongs to is shown.</p>
<p>If you start a system in MAME from a command prompt, MAME will show where it
searched for any ROM dumps or disk images that were not found.</p>
<p>Using the example of a Unitron 1024 Macintosh clone with a French keyboard
connected, MAME will show the following error messages if no ROMs are present:</p>
<div class="highlight-default notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="n">mame</span> <span class="n">utrn1024</span> <span class="o">-</span><span class="n">kbd</span> <span class="n">frp</span>
<span class="mi">342</span><span class="o">-</span><span class="mi">0341</span><span class="o">-</span><span class="n">a</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="n">u6d</span> <span class="n">NOT</span> <span class="n">FOUND</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="n">tried</span> <span class="ow">in</span> <span class="n">utrn1024</span> <span class="n">macplus</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="mi">342</span><span class="o">-</span><span class="mi">0342</span><span class="o">-</span><span class="n">a</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="n">u8d</span> <span class="n">NOT</span> <span class="n">FOUND</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="n">tried</span> <span class="ow">in</span> <span class="n">utrn1024</span> <span class="n">macplus</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="mi">341</span><span class="o">-</span><span class="mi">0332</span><span class="o">-</span><span class="n">a</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="n">bin</span> <span class="n">NOT</span> <span class="n">FOUND</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="n">tried</span> <span class="ow">in</span> <span class="n">mackbd_m0110a_f</span> <span class="n">mackbd_m0110a</span> <span class="n">utrn1024</span> <span class="n">macplus</span><span class="p">)</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>MAME used the system short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">utrn1024</span></code> and the parent system short name
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">macplus</span></code> when searching for system ROMs.  When searching for the keyboard
microcontroller ROM, MAME used the device short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mackbd_m0110a_f</span></code>, the
parent ROM device short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mackbd_m0110a</span></code>, the system short name
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">utrn1024</span></code>, and the parent system short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">macplus</span></code>.</p>
<p>Software parts that use the ROM loader (typically cartridge media) show similar
messages when ROM dumps are not found.  Using the example of the German version
of Dune II on a PAL Mega Drive, MAME will show the following error messages if
no ROMs are present:</p>
<div class="highlight-default notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="n">mame</span> <span class="n">megadriv</span> <span class="n">dune2g</span>
<span class="n">mpr</span><span class="o">-</span><span class="mi">16838</span><span class="o">-</span><span class="n">f</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="n">u1</span> <span class="n">NOT</span> <span class="n">FOUND</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="n">tried</span> <span class="ow">in</span> <span class="n">megadriv</span>\<span class="n">dune2g</span> <span class="n">megadriv</span>\<span class="n">dune2</span> <span class="n">dune2g</span> <span class="n">dune2</span> <span class="n">megadriv</span> <span class="n">genesis</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="n">Fatal</span> <span class="n">error</span><span class="p">:</span> <span class="n">Required</span> <span class="n">files</span> <span class="n">are</span> <span class="n">missing</span><span class="p">,</span> <span class="n">the</span> <span class="n">machine</span> <span class="n">cannot</span> <span class="n">be</span> <span class="n">run</span><span class="o">.</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>MAME searched for the cartridge ROM using:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>The software list short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">megadriv</span></code> and the software item short name
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dune2g</span></code>.</p></li>
<li><p>The software list short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">megadriv</span></code> and the parent software item short
name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dune2</span></code>.</p></li>
<li><p>The software item short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dune2g</span></code> only.</p></li>
<li><p>The parent software item short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dune2</span></code> only.</p></li>
<li><p>The locations that would be searched for the PAL Mega Drive system (the system
short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">megadriv</span></code> and the parent system short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">genesis</span></code>).</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Software parts that use the image file loader (including floppy disk and
cassette media) only check for media after ROM images are loaded, and missing
media files are shown differently.  Using the example of Macintosh System 6.0.3,
MAME will show these error messages if the software is missing:</p>
<div class="highlight-default notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="n">mame</span> <span class="n">macplus</span> <span class="o">-</span><span class="n">flop1</span> <span class="n">sys603</span><span class="p">:</span><span class="n">flop1</span>
<span class="p">:</span><span class="n">fdc</span><span class="p">:</span><span class="mi">0</span><span class="p">:</span><span class="mi">35</span><span class="n">dd</span><span class="p">:</span> <span class="n">error</span> <span class="n">opening</span> <span class="n">image</span> <span class="n">file</span> <span class="n">system</span> <span class="n">tools</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="n">img</span><span class="p">:</span> <span class="n">No</span> <span class="n">such</span> <span class="n">file</span> <span class="ow">or</span> <span class="n">directory</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="n">generic</span><span class="p">:</span><span class="mi">2</span><span class="p">)</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="n">tried</span> <span class="ow">in</span> <span class="n">mac_flop</span>\<span class="n">sys603</span> <span class="n">sys603</span> <span class="n">macplus</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="n">Fatal</span> <span class="n">error</span><span class="p">:</span> <span class="n">Device</span> <span class="n">Apple</span><span class="o">/</span><span class="n">Sony</span> <span class="mf">3.5</span> <span class="n">DD</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="mi">400</span><span class="o">/</span><span class="mi">800</span><span class="n">K</span> <span class="n">GCR</span><span class="p">)</span> <span class="n">load</span> <span class="p">(</span><span class="o">-</span><span class="n">floppydisk1</span> <span class="n">sys603</span><span class="p">:</span><span class="n">flop1</span><span class="p">)</span> <span class="n">failed</span><span class="p">:</span> <span class="n">No</span> <span class="n">such</span> <span class="n">file</span> <span class="ow">or</span> <span class="n">directory</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>The error messages show where MAME searched for the image file in the same
format.  In this case, it used the software list short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mac_flop</span></code> and the
software short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">sys603</span></code>, the software short name <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">sys603</span></code> only, and
the locations that would be searched for system ROMs.</p>
</section>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>