<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Front-ends</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="front-ends">
<span id="frontends"></span><h1>Front-ends</h1>
<p>A number of third party tools for MAME to make system and software selection
simpler are available.  These tools are called “front-ends”, and there are far
too many to list exhaustively here.  Some are free, some are commercial –
caveat emptor.  Some older front-ends predate the merging of MAME and MESS and
do not support the additional console, hand-held, and computer functionality
inherited from MESS.</p>
<p>This following list is not an endorsement of any of these front-ends by the MAME
team.  It simply shows a number of commonly used free front-ends to provide a
starting point.</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><a class="reference external" href="http://qmc2.batcom-it.net/">QMC2</a><span class="link-target"> [http://qmc2.batcom-it.net/]</span> (multiple platforms)</dt><dd><p>Provides a graphical interface for configuring many of MAME’s settings and
features.  Also includes ROM management and media auditing features.
Written in C++ using the Qt toolkit, the
<a class="reference external" href="https://sourceforge.net/projects/qmc2/">source code is on SourceForge</a><span class="link-target"> [https://sourceforge.net/projects/qmc2/]</span>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference external" href="http://negatron.net/">Negatron</a><span class="link-target"> [http://negatron.net/]</span> (multiple platforms)</dt><dd><p>Negatron emphasises features for configuring emulated computers and
consoles.  Written in Java, the
<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/xinyingho/Negatron">source code is on GitHub</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/xinyingho/Negatron]</span>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference external" href="https://www.bletchmame.org/">BletchMAME</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.bletchmame.org/]</span> (multiple platforms)</dt><dd><p>BletchMAME takes advantage of MAME’s Lua scripting interface to integrate
tightly and effectively replace MAME’s internal user interface.  It has
many useful features for home computer emulation.  Written in C++, the
<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/npwoods/bletchmame">source code is on GitHub</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/npwoods/bletchmame]</span>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference external" href="https://john-iv.github.io/iv-play/">IV/Play</a><span class="link-target"> [https://john-iv.github.io/iv-play/]</span> (Microsoft Windows)</dt><dd><p>A fast, keyboard-driven, DirectX-accelerated launcher for MAME. IV/Play
features a flexible filtering system, integrated browsing and launching
for software lists, and a highly customizable interface. Written in C#.</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference external" href="http://emuloader.mameworld.info/">Emu Loader</a><span class="link-target"> [http://emuloader.mameworld.info/]</span> (Microsoft Windows)</dt><dd><p>Emu Loader provides a Windows interface for launching systems in multiple
emulators, including MAME, Supermodel and DEMUL.  Written in Delphi Pascal,
the source code is available
<a class="reference external" href="https://emuloader.mameworld.info/downloads.htm">on the download page</a><span class="link-target"> [https://emuloader.mameworld.info/downloads.htm]</span>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference external" href="https://e2j.net/downloads/">Retrofire</a><span class="link-target"> [https://e2j.net/downloads/]</span> (Japanese, Microsoft Windows)</dt><dd><p>Provides a Japanese-language graphical interface for launching systems or
software in MAME.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>The MAME team will not provide support for issues with front-ends.  For support,
we suggest contacting the front-end author or asking on one of the popular
MAME-friendly forums on the Internet.</p>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>