<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Using MAME</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="using-mame">
<h1>Using MAME</h1>
<p>If you want to dive right in and skip the command line, there's a nice graphical
way to use MAME without the need to download and set up a front end. Simply
start MAME with no parameters, by double-clicking the <strong>mame.exe</strong> file or
running it directly from the command line. If you're looking to harness the
full power of MAME, keep reading further.</p>
<p>On macOS and *nix-based platforms, please be sure to set your font up to match
your locale before starting, otherwise you may not be able to read the text due
to missing glyphs.</p>
<p>If you are a new MAME user, you could find this emulator a bit complex at
first. Let's take a moment to talk about software lists, as they can simplify
matters quite a bit. If the content you are trying to play is a documented
entry on one of the MAME software lists, starting the content is as easy as</p>
<blockquote>
<div><p><strong>mame.exe</strong> <em>&lt;system&gt;</em> <em>&lt;software&gt;</em></p>
</div></blockquote>
<p>For instance:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><p><strong>mame.exe nes metroidu</strong></p>
</div></blockquote>
<p>will load the USA version of Metroid for the Nintendo Entertainment System.</p>
<p>Alternatively, you could start MAME with</p>
<blockquote>
<div><p><strong>mame.exe nes</strong></p>
</div></blockquote>
<p>and choose the <em>software list</em> from the cartridge slot. From there, you could
pick any software list-compatible software you have in your roms folders. Please
note that many older dumps of cartridges and discs may either be bad or require
renaming to match up to the software list in order to work in this way.</p>
<p>If you are loading an arcade board or other non-software list content, things
are only a little more complicated:</p>
<p>The basic usage, from command line, is</p>
<blockquote>
<div><p><strong>mame.exe</strong> <em>&lt;system&gt;</em> <em>&lt;media&gt;</em> <em>&lt;software&gt;</em> <em>&lt;options&gt;</em></p>
</div></blockquote>
<p>where</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><em>&lt;system&gt;</em> is the short name of the system you want to emulate (e.g. nes, c64,
etc.)</p></li>
<li><p><em>&lt;media&gt;</em> is the switch for the media you want to load (if it's a cartridge,
try <strong>-cart</strong> or <strong>-cart1</strong>; if it's a floppy disk, try <strong>-flop</strong> or
<strong>-flop1</strong>; if it's a CD-ROM, try <strong>-cdrom</strong>)</p></li>
<li><p><em>&lt;software&gt;</em> is the program / game you want to load (and it can be given
either as the fullpath to the file to load, or as the shortname of the file in
our software lists)</p></li>
<li><p><em>&lt;options&gt;</em> is any additional command line option for controllers, video,
sound, etc.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Remember that if you type a <em>&lt;system&gt;</em> name which does not correspond to any
emulated system, MAME will suggest some possible choices which are close to
what you typed; and if you don't know which <em>&lt;media&gt;</em> switch are available, you
can always launch</p>
<blockquote>
<div><p><strong>mame.exe</strong> <em>&lt;system&gt;</em> <strong>-listmedia</strong></p>
</div></blockquote>
<p>If you don't know what <em>&lt;options&gt;</em> are available, there are a few things you
can do. First of all, you can check the command line options section of this
manual. You can also try one of the many <a class="reference internal" href="frontends.xhtml#frontends"><span class="std std-ref">Front-ends</span></a> available for MAME.</p>
<p>Alternatively, you should keep in mind the following command line options,
which might be very useful on occasion:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><p><strong>mame.exe -help</strong></p>
</div></blockquote>
<p>gives a basic summary of command line options for MAME, as explained above.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><p><strong>mame.exe -showusage</strong></p>
</div></blockquote>
<p>gives you the (quite long) list of available command line options for MAME.
The main options are described, in the <a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-universal"><span class="std std-ref">Universal Command-line Options</span></a> section
of this manual.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><p><strong>mame.exe -showconfig</strong></p>
</div></blockquote>
<p>gives you a (quite long) list of available configuration options for MAME.
These options can always be modified at command line, or by editing them in
mame.ini which is the main configuration file for MAME. You can find a
description of some configuration options in the
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-universal"><span class="std std-ref">Universal Command-line Options</span></a> section of the manual (in most cases, each
configuration option has a corresponding command line option to configure and
modify it).</p>
<blockquote>
<div><p><strong>mame.exe -createconfig</strong></p>
</div></blockquote>
<p>creates a brand new <strong>mame.ini</strong> file, with default configuration settings.
Notice that mame.ini is basically a plain text file, so you can open it with any
text editor (e.g. Notepad, Emacs or TextEdit) and configure every option you
need. However, no particular tweaks are needed to start, so you can leave most
of the options unaltered.</p>
<p>If you execute <strong>mame -createconfig</strong> when you already have an existing
mame.ini from a previous MAME version, MAME automatically updates the
pre-existing mame.ini by copying changed options into it.</p>
<p>Once you are more confident with MAME options, you may want to adjust the
configuration of your setup a bit more. In this case, keep in mind the order in
which options are read; see <a class="reference internal" href="../advanced/multiconfig.xhtml#advanced-multi-cfg"><span class="std std-ref">Order of Config Loading</span></a> for details.</p>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>