<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>MAME Naming Conventions</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="mame-naming-conventions">
<span id="naming"></span><h1>MAME Naming Conventions</h1>
<nav class="contents local" id="contents">
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#introduction" id="id1">Introduction</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#transliteration" id="id2">Transliteration</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#titles-and-descriptions" id="id3">Titles and descriptions</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#c-naming-conventions" id="id4">C++ naming conventions</a></p></li>
</ul>
</nav>
<section id="introduction">
<span id="naming-intro"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id1" role="doc-backlink">Introduction</a></h2>
<p>To promote consistency and readability in MAME source code, we have some
naming conventions for various elements.</p>
</section>
<section id="transliteration">
<span id="naming-transliteration"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id2" role="doc-backlink">Transliteration</a></h2>
<p>For better or worse, the most broadly recognised script in the world is
English Latin.  Conveniently, it’s also included in almost all character
encodings.  To make MAME more globally accessible, we require Latin
transliterations of titles and other metadata from other scripts.  Do
not use translations in metadata – translations are inherently
subjective and error-prone.  Translations may be included in comments if
they may be helpful.</p>
<p>If general, if an official Latin script name is known, it should be used
in favour of a naïve transliteration.  For titles containing foreign
loanwords, the conventional Latin spelling should be used for the
loanwords (the most obvious example of this is the use of “Mahjong” in
Japanese titles rather than “Maajan”).</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>Chinese</dt><dd><p>Where the primary audience was Mandarin-speaking, Hanyu Pinyin
should be used.  In contexts where diacritics are not permitted
(e.g. when limited to ASCII), tone numbers should be omitted.  When
tones are being indicated using diacritics, tone sandhi rules should
be applied.  Where the primary audience was Cantonese-speaking
(primarily Hong Kong and Guandong), Jyutping should be used with
tone numbers omitted.  If in doubt, use Hanyu Pinyin.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Greek</dt><dd><p>Use ISO 843:1997 type 2 (TR) rules.  Do not use traditional English
spellings for Greek names (people or places).</p>
</dd>
<dt>Japanese</dt><dd><p>Modified Hepburn rules should generally be used.  Use an apostrophe
between syllabic N and a following vowel (including iotised vowels).
Do not use hyphens to transliterate prolonged vowels.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Korean</dt><dd><p>Use Revised Romanisation of Korean (RR) rules with traditional
English spelling for Korean surnames.  Do not use ALA-LC rules for
word division and use of hyphens.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Vietnamese</dt><dd><p>When diacritics can’t be used, omit the tones and replace the vowels
with single English vowels – do not use VIQR or TELEX conventions
(“an chuot nuong” rather than “a(n chuo^.t nu*o*'ng” or “awn chuootj
nuowngs”).</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="titles-and-descriptions">
<span id="naming-titles"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id3" role="doc-backlink">Titles and descriptions</a></h2>
<p>Try to reproduce the original title faithfully where possible.  Try to
preserve the case convention used by the manufacturer/publisher.  If no
official English Latin title is known, use a standard transliteration.
For software list entries where a transliteration is used for the
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">description</span></code> element, put the title in an <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">info</span></code> element with a
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name=&quot;alt_title&quot;</span></code> attribute.</p>
<p>For software items that have multiple titles (for example different
regional titles with the same installation media), use the most
widespread English Latin title for the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">description</span></code> element, and put
the other titles in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">info</span></code> elements with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name=&quot;alt_title&quot;</span></code>
attributes.</p>
<p>If disambiguation is needed, try to be descriptive as possible.  For
example, use the manufacturer’s version number, regional licensee’s
name, or terse description of hardware differences in preference to
arbitrary set numbers.  Surround the disambiguation text with
parentheses, preserve original case for names and version text, but
use lowercase for anything else besides proper nouns and initialisms.</p>
</section>
<section id="c-naming-conventions">
<span id="naming-cplusplus"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id4" role="doc-backlink">C++ naming conventions</a></h2>
<p>For C++ naming conventions, see the relevant section in the C++
Coding Guidelines: <a class="reference internal" href="../contributing/cxx.xhtml#contributing-cxx-naming"><span class="std std-ref">Naming conventions</span></a></p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>