<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Configuring MAME</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="configuring-mame">
<h1>Configuring MAME</h1>
<nav class="contents local" id="contents">
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#getting-started-a-quick-preface" id="id1">Getting Started: A Quick Preface</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#initial-setup-creating-mame-ini-from-command-line-on-windows" id="id2">Initial Setup: Creating mame.ini From Command Line on Windows</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#initial-setup-creating-mame-ini-from-command-line-on-linux-or-macos" id="id3">Initial Setup: Creating mame.ini From Command Line on Linux or MacOS</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#initial-setup-graphical-setup" id="id4">Initial Setup: Graphical Setup</a></p></li>
</ul>
</nav>
<section id="getting-started-a-quick-preface">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id1" role="doc-backlink">Getting Started: A Quick Preface</a></h2>
<p>Once you have MAME installed, the next step is to configure it. There are
several ways to do this, and each will be covered in turn.</p>
<p>If you are on Windows, the MAME executable will be called <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame.exe</span></code>.</p>
<p>If you are on Linux or MacOS, the MAME executable will be called <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame</span></code>.</p>
</section>
<section id="initial-setup-creating-mame-ini-from-command-line-on-windows">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id2" role="doc-backlink">Initial Setup: Creating mame.ini From Command Line on Windows</a></h2>
<p>First, you will need to <em>cd</em> to the directory where you installed MAME into.
If, for instance, you have MAME installed in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">C:\Users\Public\MAME</span></code> you will
need to type <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">cd</span> <span class="pre">C:\Users\Public\MAME</span></code> into the command prompt.</p>
<p>Then you have MAME create the config file by typing <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame</span>
<span class="pre">-createconfig</span></code>.  MAME will then create the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame.ini</span></code> file in the
MAME installation folder.  This file contains the default
configuration settings for a new MAME installation.</p>
</section>
<section id="initial-setup-creating-mame-ini-from-command-line-on-linux-or-macos">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id3" role="doc-backlink">Initial Setup: Creating mame.ini From Command Line on Linux or MacOS</a></h2>
<p>The steps for Linux and MacOS are similar to those of Windows. If you
installed MAME using the package manager that came from a Linux distro, you will
type <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame</span> <span class="pre">-createconfig</span></code> into your terminal of choice.</p>
<p>If you have compiled from source or downloaded a binary package of MAME,
you will <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">cd</span></code> into the directory you put the MAME files into.</p>
<p>For instance, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">cd</span> <span class="pre">/home/myusername/mame</span></code></p>
<p>Then you will type <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">./mame</span> <span class="pre">-createconfig</span></code> into
your terminal of choice.</p>
<p>You can then need to edit the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame.ini</span></code> file in your favorite text editor,
e.g. <em>Notepad</em> on Windows or <em>vi</em> on Linux/MacOS, or you can change settings
from inside of MAME.</p>
</section>
<section id="initial-setup-graphical-setup">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id4" role="doc-backlink">Initial Setup: Graphical Setup</a></h2>
<p>This is the easiest way to get started. Start MAME by opening the MAME
icon in the location where you installed it. This will be <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame.exe</span></code>
on Windows, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame</span></code> on Linux and macOS.</p>
<p>Once MAME has started, you can either use your mouse to click on the
<strong>Configure Options</strong> menu selection at the bottom center of your screen,
or you can switch panes to the bottom one (default key is Tab), then press
the menu accept button (default key is Return/Enter) to go into the
Configuration menu.</p>
<p>Choose <strong>Save Configuration</strong> to create the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame.ini</span></code> file with default
settings. From here, you can either continue to configure things from the
graphical user interface or edit the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame.ini</span></code> file in your favorite
text editor.</p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>