<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>C++ Coding Guidelines</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="c-coding-guidelines">
<span id="contributing-cxx"></span><h1>C++ Coding Guidelines</h1>
<nav class="contents local" id="contents">
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#introduction" id="id1">Introduction</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#definitions" id="id2">Definitions</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#source-file-format" id="id3">Source file format</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#naming-conventions" id="id4">Naming conventions</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#variables-and-literals" id="id5">Variables and literals</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#bracing-and-indentation" id="id6">Bracing and indentation</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#spacing" id="id7">Spacing</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#scoping" id="id8">Scoping</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#const-correctness" id="id9">Const Correctness</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#comments" id="id10">Comments</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#mame-specific-helpers" id="id11">MAME-Specific Helpers</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#logging" id="id12">Logging</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#structural-organization" id="id13">Structural organization</a></p></li>
</ul>
</nav>
<section id="introduction">
<span id="contributing-cxx-intro"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id1" role="doc-backlink">Introduction</a></h2>
<p><strong>In terms of coding conventions, the style present within an existing
source file should be favoured over the standards found below.</strong></p>
<p>When a new source file is being created, the following coding
conventions should be observed if creating a new file within the MAME
core (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">src/emu</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">src/lib</span></code>).  If the source file is outside the
core, deference can be given to a contributor’s preferred style,
although it is strongly encouraged to code with the understanding that
the file may need to be comprehensible by more than one person as time
marches forward.</p>
</section>
<section id="definitions">
<span id="contributing-cxx-definitions"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id2" role="doc-backlink">Definitions</a></h2>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>Snake case</dt><dd><p>All lowercase letters with words separated by underscores:
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">this_is_snake_case</span></code></p>
</dd>
<dt>Screaming snake case</dt><dd><p>All uppercase letters with words separated by underscores:
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE</span></code></p>
</dd>
<dt>Camel case:</dt><dd><p>Lowercase initial letter, first letter of each subsequent word
capitalised, with no separators between words: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">exampleCamelCase</span></code></p>
</dd>
<dt>Llama case:</dt><dd><p>Uppercase initial letter, first letter of each subsequent word
capitalised, with no separators between words: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">LlamaCaseSample</span></code></p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="source-file-format">
<span id="contributing-cxx-fileformat"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id3" role="doc-backlink">Source file format</a></h2>
<p>MAME C++ source files are encoded as UTF-8 text, assuming fixed-width
characters, with tab stops at four-space intervals.  Source files should
end with a terminating end-of-line.  Any valid printable Unicode text is
permitted in comments.  Outside comments and strings, only the printable
ASCII subset of Unicode is permitted.</p>
<p>The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">srcclean</span></code> tool is used to enforce file format rules before each
release.  You can build this tool and apply it to the files you modify
before opening a pull request to avoid conflicts or surprising changes
later.</p>
</section>
<section id="naming-conventions">
<span id="contributing-cxx-naming"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id4" role="doc-backlink">Naming conventions</a></h2>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>Preprocessor macros</dt><dd><p>Macro names should use screaming snake case.  Macros are always
global and name conflicts can cause confusing errors – think
carefully about what macros really need to be in headers and name
them carefully.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Include guards</dt><dd><p>Include guard macros should begin with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">MAME_</span></code>, and end with a
capitalised version of the file name, with separators replaced by
underscores.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Constants</dt><dd><p>Constants should use screaming snake case, whether they are constant
globals, constant data members, enumerators or preprocessor
constants.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Functions</dt><dd><p>Free functions names should use snake case.  (There are some utility
function that were previously implemented as preprocessor macros
that still use screaming snake case.)</p>
</dd>
<dt>Classes</dt><dd><p>Class names should use snake case.  Abstract class names should end
in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">_base</span></code>.  Public member functions (including static member
functions) should use snake case.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Device classes</dt><dd><p>Concrete driver <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">driver_device</span></code> implementation names
conventionally end in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">_state</span></code>, while other concrete device class
names end in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">_device</span></code>.  Concrete <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_interface</span></code> names
conventionally begin with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_</span></code> and end with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">_interface</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Device types</dt><dd><p>Device types should use screaming snake case.  Remember that device
types are names in the global namespace, so choose explicit,
unambiguous names.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Enumerations</dt><dd><p>The enumeration name should use snake case.  The enumerators should
use screaming snake case.</p>
</dd>
<dt>Template parameters</dt><dd><p>Template parameters should use llama case (both type and value
parameters).</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Identifiers containing two consecutive underscores or starting with an
underscore followed by an uppercase letter are always reserved and
should not be used.</p>
<p>Type names and other identifiers with a leading underscore should be
avoided within the global namespace, as they are explicitly reserved
according to the C++ standard.  Additionally, identifiers suffixed with
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">_t</span></code> should be avoided within the global namespace, as they are also
reserved according to POSIX standards.  While MAME violates this policy
occasionally – most notably with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_t</span></code> – it’s considered to be an
unfortunate legacy decision that should be avoided in any new code.</p>
</section>
<section id="variables-and-literals">
<span id="contributing-cxx-literals"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id5" role="doc-backlink">Variables and literals</a></h2>
<p>Octal literals are discouraged from use outside of specific cases.  They
lack the obvious letter-based prefixes found in hexadecimal and binary
literals, and therefore can be difficult to distinguish at a glance from
a decimal literal to coders who are unfamiliar with octal notation.</p>
<p>Lower-case hexadecimal literals are preferred, e.g. <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0xbadc0de</span></code> rather
than <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0xBADC0DE</span></code>.  For clarity, try not to exceed the bit width of the
variable which will be used to store it.</p>
<p>Binary literals have rarely been used in the MAME source code due to the
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0b</span></code> prefix not being standardised until C++14, but there is no policy
to avoid their use.</p>
<p>Integer suffix notation should be used when specifying 64-bit literals,
but is not strictly required in other cases.  It can, however, clarify
the intended use of a given literal at a glance.  Uppercase long integer
literal suffixes should be used to avoid confusion with the digit 1,
e.g.  <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">7LL</span></code> rather than <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">7ll</span></code>.</p>
<p>Digit grouping should be used for longer numeric literals, as it aids in
recognising order of magnitude or bit field positions at a glance.
Decimal literals should use groups of three digits, and hexadecimal
literals should use groups of four digits, outside of specific
situations where different grouping would be easier to understand, e.g.
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">4'433'619</span></code> or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0xfff8'1fff</span></code>.</p>
<p>Types that do not have a specifically defined size should be avoided if
they are to be registered with MAME’s save-state system, as it harms
portability.  In general, this means avoiding the use of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">int</span></code> for
these members.</p>
<p>It's encouraged, but not required, for class data members to be prefixed
with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">m_</span></code> for non-static instance members and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">s_</span></code> for static
members.  This does not apply to nested classes or structs.</p>
</section>
<section id="bracing-and-indentation">
<span id="contributing-cxx-braceindent"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id6" role="doc-backlink">Bracing and indentation</a></h2>
<p>Tabs are used for initial indentation of lines, with one tab used per
nested scope level.  Statements split across multiple lines should be
indented by two tabs.  Spaces are used for alignment at other places
within a line.</p>
<p>Either K&amp;R or Allman-style bracing is preferred.  There is no specific
preference for bracing on single-line statements, although bracing
should be consistent for a given <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">if/else</span></code> block, as shown:</p>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">if</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">x</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">==</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">0</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="k">return</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
<span class="k">else</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="n">call_some_function</span><span class="p">();</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="n">x</span><span class="o">--</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>When using a series of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">if</span></code>/<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">else</span></code> or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">if</span></code>/<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">else</span> <span class="pre">if</span></code>/<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">else</span></code>
blocks with comments at the top indentation level, avoid extraneous
newlines.  The use of additional newlines may lead to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">else</span> <span class="pre">if</span></code> or
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">else</span></code> blocks being missed due to the newlines pushing the blocks
outside the visible editor height:</p>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1">// Early-out if our hypothetical counter has run out.</span>
<span class="k">if</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">x</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">==</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">0</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="k">return</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
<span class="c1">// We should do something if the counter is running.</span>
<span class="k">else</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="n">call_some_function</span><span class="p">();</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="n">x</span><span class="o">--</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Indentation for <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">case</span></code> statements inside a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">switch</span></code> body can either
be on the same level as the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">switch</span></code> statement or inward by one level.
There is no specific style which is used across all core files, although
indenting by one level appears to be used most often.</p>
</section>
<section id="spacing">
<span id="contributing-cxx-spacing"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id7" role="doc-backlink">Spacing</a></h2>
<p>Consistent single-spacing between binary operators, variables, and
literals is strongly preferred.  The following examples exhibit
reasonably consistent spacing:</p>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="kt">uint8_t</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">foo</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">=</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(((</span><span class="n">bar</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">+</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">baz</span><span class="p">)</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">+</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">3</span><span class="p">)</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">&amp;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">7</span><span class="p">)</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">&lt;&lt;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">1</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="kt">uint8_t</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">foo</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">=</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">((</span><span class="n">bar</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">&lt;&lt;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">1</span><span class="p">)</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">+</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">baz</span><span class="p">)</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">&amp;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mh">0x0e</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="kt">uint8_t</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">foo</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">=</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">bar</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">?</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">baz</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">:</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">5</span><span class="p">;</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>The following examples exhibit extremes in either direction, although
having extra spaces is less difficult to read than having too few:</p>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="kt">uint8_t</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">foo</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">=</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">bar</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">+</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">baz</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">)</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">+</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">3</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">)</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">&amp;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">7</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">)</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">&lt;&lt;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">1</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="kt">uint8_t</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">foo</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">=</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">((</span><span class="n">bar</span><span class="o">&lt;&lt;</span><span class="mi">1</span><span class="p">)</span><span class="o">+</span><span class="n">baz</span><span class="p">)</span><span class="o">&amp;</span><span class="mh">0x0e</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="kt">uint8_t</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">foo</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">=</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">bar</span><span class="o">?</span><span class="n">baz</span><span class="o">:</span><span class="mi">5</span><span class="p">);</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>A space should be used between a fundamental C++ statement and its
opening parenthesis, e.g.:</p>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">switch</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">value</span><span class="p">)</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">...</span>
<span class="k">if</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">a</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">!=</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">b</span><span class="p">)</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">...</span>
<span class="k">for</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="kt">int</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">i</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">=</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">0</span><span class="p">;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">i</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">&lt;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">foo</span><span class="p">;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">i</span><span class="o">++</span><span class="p">)</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">...</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
</section>
<section id="scoping">
<span id="contributing-cxx-scoping"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id8" role="doc-backlink">Scoping</a></h2>
<p>Variables should be scoped as narrowly as is reasonably possible.  There
are many instances of C89-style local variable declaration in the MAME
codebase, but this is largely a hold-over from MAME’s early days, which
pre-date the C99 specification.</p>
<p>The following two snippets exhibit the legacy style of local variable
declaration, followed by the more modern and preferred style:</p>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="kt">void</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nf">example_device::some_function</span><span class="p">()</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="kt">int</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">i</span><span class="p">;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="kt">uint8_t</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">data</span><span class="p">;</span>

<span class="w">    </span><span class="k">for</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">i</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">=</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">0</span><span class="p">;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">i</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">&lt;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">std</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="n">size</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">m_buffer</span><span class="p">);</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">i</span><span class="o">++</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="n">data</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">=</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">m_buffer</span><span class="p">[</span><span class="n">i</span><span class="p">];</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="k">if</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">data</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">            </span><span class="n">some_other_function</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">data</span><span class="p">);</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="p">}</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="p">}</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="kt">void</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nf">example_device::some_function</span><span class="p">()</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="k">for</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="kt">int</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">i</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">=</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="mi">0</span><span class="p">;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">i</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">&lt;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">std</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="n">size</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">m_buffer</span><span class="p">);</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">i</span><span class="o">++</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="k">const</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="kt">uint8_t</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">data</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">=</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">m_buffer</span><span class="p">[</span><span class="n">i</span><span class="p">];</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="k">if</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">data</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">            </span><span class="n">some_other_function</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">data</span><span class="p">);</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="p">}</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="p">}</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Enumerated values, structs, and classes used only by one specific device
should be declared within the device's class itself.  This avoids
pollution of the global namespace and makes the device-specific use of
them more obvious at a glance.</p>
</section>
<section id="const-correctness">
<span id="contributing-cxx-const"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id9" role="doc-backlink">Const Correctness</a></h2>
<p>Const-correctness has not historically been a strict requirement of code
that goes into MAME, but there’s increasing value in it as the amount of
code refactoring increases and technical debt decreases.</p>
<p>When writing new code, it’s worth taking the time to determine if a
local variable can be declared <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">const</span></code>.  Similarly, it's encouraged to
consider which member functions of a new class can be <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">const</span></code>
qualified.</p>
<p>In a similar vein, arrays of constants should be declared <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">constexpr</span></code>
and should use screaming snake case, as outlined towards the top of this
document.  Lastly, arrays of C-style strings should be declared as both
a const array of const strings, as so:</p>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="k">static</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="k">const</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="kt">char</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">*</span><span class="k">const</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">EXAMPLE_NAMES</span><span class="p">[</span><span class="mi">4</span><span class="p">]</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">=</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="s">&quot;1-bit&quot;</span><span class="p">,</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="s">&quot;2-bit&quot;</span><span class="p">,</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="s">&quot;4-bit&quot;</span><span class="p">,</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="s">&quot;Invalid&quot;</span>
<span class="p">};</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
</section>
<section id="comments">
<span id="contributing-cxx-comments"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id10" role="doc-backlink">Comments</a></h2>
<p>While <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">/*</span> <span class="pre">ANSI</span> <span class="pre">C</span> <span class="pre">comments</span> <span class="pre">*/</span></code> are often found in the codebase, there
has been a gradual shift towards <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">//</span> <span class="pre">C++-style</span> <span class="pre">comments</span></code> for
single-line comments.  This is very much a guideline, and coders are
encouraged to use whichever style is most comfortable.</p>
<p>Unless specifically quoting content from a machine or ancillary
materials, comments should be in English so as to match the predominant
language that the MAME team shares worldwide.</p>
<p>Commented-out code should typically be removed prior to authoring a pull
request, as it has a tendency to rot due to the fast-moving nature of
MAME’s core API.  If there is a desire known beforehand for the code to
eventually be included, it should be bookended in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">if</span> <span class="pre">(0)</span></code> or
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">if</span> <span class="pre">(false)</span></code>, as code removed through a preprocessor macro will rot at
the same rate.</p>
</section>
<section id="mame-specific-helpers">
<span id="contributing-cxx-helpers"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id11" role="doc-backlink">MAME-Specific Helpers</a></h2>
<p>When at all possible, use helper functions and macros for bit
manipulation operations.</p>
<p>The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">BIT(value,</span> <span class="pre">bit)</span></code> helper can be used to extract the state of a bit
at a given position from an integer value.  The resulting value will be
aligned to the least significant bit position, i.e. will be either 0 or
1.</p>
<p>An overload of the same function, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">BIT(value,</span> <span class="pre">bit,</span> <span class="pre">width)</span></code> can be used
to extract a bit field of a specified width from an integer value,
starting at the specified bit position.  The result will also be
right-justified and will be of the same type as the incoming value.</p>
<p>There are, additionally, a number of helpers for functionality such as
counting leading zeroes/ones, population count, and signed/unsigned
integer multiplication and division for both 32-bit and 64-bit results.
Not all of these helpers have wide use in the MAME codebase, but using
them in new code is strongly preferred when that code is performance-
critical, as they utilise inline assembly or compiler intrinsics per-
platform when available.</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">count_leading_zeros_32/64(T</span> <span class="pre">value)</span></code></dt><dd><p>Accepts an unsigned 32/64-bit value and returns an unsigned 8-bit
value containing the number of consecutive zeros starting from the
most significant bit.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">count_leading_ones_32/64(T</span> <span class="pre">value)</span></code></dt><dd><p>Same functionality as above, but examining consecutive one-bits.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">population_count_32/64(T</span> <span class="pre">value)</span></code></dt><dd><p>Accepts an unsigned 32/64-bit value and returns the number of
one-bits found, i.e. the Hamming weight of the value.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rotl_32/64(T</span> <span class="pre">value,</span> <span class="pre">int</span> <span class="pre">shift)</span></code></dt><dd><p>Performs a circular/barrel left shift of an unsigned 32/64-bit value
with the specified shift value. The shift value will be masked to
the valid bit range for a 32-bit or 64-bit value.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rotr_32/64(T</span> <span class="pre">value,</span> <span class="pre">int</span> <span class="pre">shift)</span></code></dt><dd><p>Same functionality as above, but with a right shift.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>For documentation on helpers related to multiplication and division,
refer to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">src/osd/eminline.h</span></code>.</p>
</section>
<section id="logging">
<span id="contributing-cxx-logging"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id12" role="doc-backlink">Logging</a></h2>
<p>MAME has multiple logging function for different purposes.  Two of the
most frequently used logging functions are <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">logerror</span></code> and
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">osd_printf_verbose</span></code>:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Devices inherit a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">logerror</span></code> member function.  This automatically
includes the fully-qualified tag of the invoking device in log
messages.  Output is sent to MAME’s debugger’s rotating log buffer if
the debugger is enabled.  If the
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-log"><span class="std std-ref">-log option</span></a> is enabled, it’s also
written to the file <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">error.log</span></code> in the working directory.  If the
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-oslog"><span class="std std-ref">-oslog option</span></a> is enabled, it’s
additionally sent to the OS diagnostic output (the host debugger
diagnostic log on Windows if a host debugger is attached, or standard
error otherwise).</p></li>
<li><p>The output of the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">osd_printf_verbose</span></code> function is sent to standard
error if the <a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-verbose"><span class="std std-ref">-verbose option</span></a> is
enabled.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">osd_printf_verbose</span></code> function should be used for logging that is
useful for diagnosing user issues, while <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">logerror</span></code> should be used for
messages more relevant to developers (either developing MAME itself, or
developing software for emulated systems using MAME’s debugger).</p>
<p>For debug logging, a channel-based logging system exists via the header
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">logmacro.h</span></code>.  It can be used as a generic logging system as follows,
without needing to make use of its ability to mask out specific
channels:</p>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1">// All other headers in the .cpp file should be above this line.</span>
<span class="cp">#define VERBOSE (1)</span>
<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;logmacro.h&quot;</span>
<span class="p">...</span>
<span class="kt">void</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">some_device</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="n">some_reg_write</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">u8</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">data</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="n">LOG</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="s">&quot;%s: some_reg_write: %02x</span><span class="se">\n</span><span class="s">&quot;</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">machine</span><span class="p">().</span><span class="n">describe_context</span><span class="p">(),</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">data</span><span class="p">);</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>The above example also makes use of a helper function which is available
in all derivatives of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_t</span></code>: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">machine().describe_context()</span></code>.
This function will return a string that describes the emulation context
in which the function is being run.  This includes the fully-qualified
tag of the currently executing device (if any).  If the relevant device
implements <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device_state_interface</span></code>, it will also include the current
program-counter value reported by the device.</p>
<p>For more fine-grained control, specific bit masks can be defined and
used via the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">LOGMASKED</span></code> macro:</p>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1">// All other headers in the .cpp file should be above this line.</span>
<span class="cp">#define LOG_FOO (1 &lt;&lt; 1U)</span>
<span class="cp">#define LOG_BAR (1 &lt;&lt; 2U)</span>

<span class="cp">#define VERBOSE (LOG_FOO | LOG_BAR)</span>
<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;logmacro.h&quot;</span>
<span class="p">...</span>
<span class="kt">void</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">some_device</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="n">some_reg_write</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">u8</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">data</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="n">LOGMASKED</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">LOG_FOO</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="s">&quot;some_reg_write: %02x</span><span class="se">\n</span><span class="s">&quot;</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">data</span><span class="p">);</span>
<span class="p">}</span>

<span class="kt">void</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">some_device</span><span class="o">::</span><span class="n">another_reg_write</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">u8</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">data</span><span class="p">)</span>
<span class="p">{</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="n">LOGMASKED</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">LOG_BAR</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="s">&quot;another_reg_write: %02x</span><span class="se">\n</span><span class="s">&quot;</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">data</span><span class="p">);</span>
<span class="p">}</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Note that the least significant bit position for user-supplied masks is
1, as bit position 0 is reserved for <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">LOG_GENERAL</span></code>.</p>
<p>By default, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">LOG</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">LOGMASKED</span></code> will use the device-supplied
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">logerror</span></code> function. However, this can be redirected as desired.  The
most common use case would be to direct output to the standard output
instead, which can be accomplished by explicitly defining
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">LOG_OUTPUT_FUNC</span></code> as so:</p>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="cp">#define LOG_OUTPUT_FUNC osd_printf_info</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>A developer should always ensure that <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">VERBOSE</span></code> is set to 0 and that
any definition of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">LOG_OUTPUT_FUNC</span></code> is commented out prior to opening
a pull request.</p>
</section>
<section id="structural-organization">
<span id="contributing-cxx-structure"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id13" role="doc-backlink">Structural organization</a></h2>
<p>All C++ source files must begin with a two comments listing the
distribution license and copyright holders in a standard format.
Licenses are specified by their SPDX short identifier if available.
Here is an example of the standard format:</p>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="c1">// license:BSD-3-Clause</span>
<span class="c1">// copyright-holders:David Haywood, Tomasz Slanina</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Header includes should generally be grouped from most-dependent to
least-dependent, and sorted alphabetically within said groups:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>The project prefix header, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">emu.h</span></code>, must be the first thing in a
translation unit</p></li>
<li><p>Local project headers (i.e. headers found in the same source
directory)</p></li>
<li><p>Headers in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">src/devices</span></code></p></li>
<li><p>Headers in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">src/emu</span></code></p></li>
<li><p>Headers in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">src/lib/formats</span></code></p></li>
<li><p>Headers in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">src/lib/util</span></code></p></li>
<li><p>Headers from the OSD layer</p></li>
<li><p>C++ standard library headers</p></li>
<li><p>C standard library headers</p></li>
<li><p>OS-specific headers</p></li>
<li><p>Layout headers</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Finally, task-specific headers such as <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">logmacro.h</span></code> - described in the
previous section - should be included last.  A practical example
follows:</p>
<div class="highlight-C++ notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;emu.h&quot;</span>

<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;cpu/m68000/m68000.h&quot;</span>
<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;machine/mc68328.h&quot;</span>
<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;machine/ram.h&quot;</span>
<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;sound/dac.h&quot;</span>
<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;video/mc68328lcd.h&quot;</span>
<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;video/sed1375.h&quot;</span>

<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;emupal.h&quot;</span>
<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;screen.h&quot;</span>
<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;speaker.h&quot;</span>

<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;pilot1k.lh&quot;</span>

<span class="cp">#define VERBOSE (0)</span>
<span class="cp">#include</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="cpf">&quot;logmacro.h&quot;</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>In most cases, the class declaration for a system driver should be
within the corresponding source file along with the implementation.  In
such cases, the class declaration and all contents of the source file,
excluding the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">GAME</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">COMP</span></code>, or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">CONS</span></code> macro, should be enclosed
in an anonymous namespace (this produces better compiler diagnostics,
allows more aggressive optimisation, reduces the chance of duplicate
symbols, and reduces linking time).</p>
<p>Within a class declaration, there should be one section for each member
access level (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">public</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">protected</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">private</span></code>) if practical.
This may not be possible in cases where private constants and/or types
need to be declared before public members.  Members should use the least
public access level necessary.  Overridden virtual member functions
should generally use the same access level as the corresponding member
function in the base class.</p>
<p>Class member declarations should be grouped to aid understanding:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Within a member access level section, constants, types, data members,
instance member functions and static member functions should be
grouped.</p></li>
<li><p>In device classes, configuration member functions should be grouped
separately from live signal member functions.</p></li>
<li><p>Overridden virtual member functions should be grouped according to the
base classes they are inherited from.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>For classes with multiple overloaded constructors, constructor
delegation should be used where possible to avoid repeated member
initialiser lists.</p>
<p>Constants which are used by a device or machine driver should be in the
form of explicitly-sized enumerated values within the class declaration,
or be relegated to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">#define</span></code> macros within the source file.  This
helps avoid polluting the preprocessor.</p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>