<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Contributing to MAME</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="contributing-to-mame">
<span id="contributing"></span><h1>Contributing to MAME</h1>
<p>So you want to contribute to MAME but aren’t sure where to start?  Well
the great news is that there’s always plenty to do for people with a
variety of skill sets.</p>
<section id="testing-and-reporting-bugs">
<span id="contributing-testing"></span><h2>Testing and reporting bugs</h2>
<p>One thing MAME can always do with is more testing and bug reports.  If
you’re familiar with a system that MAME emulates and notice something
wrong, or if you find a bug in MAME’s user interface, you can head over
to <a class="reference external" href="https://mametesters.org/">MAME Testers</a><span class="link-target"> [https://mametesters.org/]</span> and, assuming it isn’t
already reported, register an account and open an issue.  Be sure to
read the <a class="reference external" href="https://mametesters.org/faq.html">FAQ</a><span class="link-target"> [https://mametesters.org/faq.html]</span> and
<a class="reference external" href="https://mametesters.org/rules.html">rules</a><span class="link-target"> [https://mametesters.org/rules.html]</span> first to ensure you start
out on the right foot.  Please note that MAME Testers only accepts
user-facing bugs in tagged release versions.</p>
<p>For other kinds of issues, we have
<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/mamedev/mame/issues/">GitHub Issues</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/mamedev/mame/issues/]</span>.  There’s a
bit more leeway here.  For example we accept developer-facing issues
(e.g. bugs in internal APIs, or build system inadequacies), feature
requests, and major regressions before they make it into a released
version.  Please respect the fact that the issue tracker is <em>not</em> a
discussion or support forum, it’s only for reporting reproducible
issues.  Don’t open issues to ask questions or request support.  Also,
keep in mind that the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">master</span></code> branch is unstable.  If the current
revision doesn’t compile at all or is completely broken, we’re probably
already aware of it and don’t need issues opened for that.  Wait a while
and see if there’s an update.  You might want to comment on the commit
in question with the compiler error message, particularly if you’re
compiling in an unorthodox but supported configuration.</p>
<p>When opening an issue, remember to provide as much information as
possible to help others understand, reproduce, and diagnose the issue.
Things that are helpful to include:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>The incorrect behaviour, and expected or correct behaviour.  Be
specific: just saying it “doesn’t work” usually isn’t enough detail.</p></li>
<li><p>Environment details, including your operating system, CPU
architecture, system locale, and display language, if applicable.  For
video output bugs, note your video hardware (GPU), driver version, and
the MAME video output module you’re using.  For input handling bugs,
include the input peripherals and MAME input modules you’re using.</p></li>
<li><p>The exact version of MAME you’re using, including a git commit digest
if it isn’t a tagged release version, and any non-standard build
options.</p></li>
<li><p>The exact system and software being emulated (may not be applicable
for issues with parts of MAME’s UI, like the system selection menu).
Include things like the selected BIOS version, and emulated peripheral
(slot device) configuration.</p></li>
<li><p>Steps to reproduce the issue.  Assume the person reading is familiar
with MAME itself, but not necessarily familiar with the emulated
system and software in question.  For emulation issues, input
recordings and/or saved state files for reproducing the issue can be
invaluable.</p></li>
<li><p>An original reference for the correct behaviour.  If you have access
to the original hardware for the emulated system, it helps to make a
recording of the correct behaviour for comparison.</p></li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="contributing-to-mames-source-code">
<span id="contributing-code"></span><h2>Contributing to MAME’s source code</h2>
<p>MAME itself is written in C++, but that isn’t the sum total of the
source code.  The source code also includes:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>The documentation hosted on this site (and also included in releases
as a PDF), written in
<a class="reference external" href="https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html">reStructuredText</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html]</span>
markup.</p></li>
<li><p>The supplied <a class="reference internal" href="../plugins/index.xhtml#plugins"><span class="std std-ref">plugins</span></a>, written in
<a class="reference external" href="https://www.lua.org/manual/5.3/">Lua 5.3</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.lua.org/manual/5.3/]</span>.</p></li>
<li><p>Internal layouts for emulated machines that need to display more than
a simple video screen.  These are an XML application
<a class="reference internal" href="../techspecs/layout_files.xhtml#layfile"><span class="std std-ref">described here</span></a>.</p></li>
<li><p>The software lists, describing known software media for systems that
MAME emulates.  MAME software lists are an XML application.</p></li>
<li><p>The user interface translations, in GNU gettext PO format.  They can
be edited with a good text editor, or a dedicated tool like
<a class="reference external" href="https://poedit.net/">Poedit</a><span class="link-target"> [https://poedit.net/]</span>.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Our primary source code repository is
<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/mamedev/mame/">hosted on GitHub</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/mamedev/mame/]</span>.  We prefer to
receive source code contributions in the form of
<a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/mamedev/mame/pulls">pull requests</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/mamedev/mame/pulls]</span>.  You’ll need
to learn the basics of git distributed version control and familiarise
yourself with the git tools.  The basic process for creating a pull
request is as follows:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Sign up for an account on GitHub.</p></li>
<li><p>Create a fork of the mamedev/mame repository.</p></li>
<li><p>Create a new branch off the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">master</span></code> branch in your forked
repository.</p></li>
<li><p>Clone your forked repository, and check out your new branch.</p></li>
<li><p>Make your changes, and build and test them locally.</p></li>
<li><p>Commit your changes, and push your branch to GitHub.</p></li>
<li><p>Optionally enable GitHub Actions for your forked repository, allowing
your changes to be built on Windows, macOS and Linux.</p></li>
<li><p>Open a pull request to merge your changes into the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">master</span></code> branch
in the mamedev/mame repository.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Please keep the following in mind (note that not all points are relevant
to all kinds of changes):</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>Make your commit messages descriptive.  Please include what the change
affects, and what it’s supposed to achieve.  A person reading the
commit log shouldn’t need to resort to examining the diff to get a
basic idea of what a commit is supposed to do.  The default commit
messages provided by GitHub are completely useless, as they don’t give
any indication of what a change is supposed to do.</p></li>
<li><p>Test your changes.  Ensure that a full build of MAME completes, and
that the code you changed works.  It’s a good idea to build with
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">DEBUG=1</span></code> to check that assertions compile and don’t trigger.</p></li>
<li><p>Use an enlightening pull request title and description.  The title
should give a one-line summary of what the overall change affects and
what it’s supposed to do.  The description should contain more detail.
Don’t leave the description empty and describe the change in comments,
as this makes searching and filtering more difficult.</p></li>
<li><p>Be aware that GitHub Actions has opaque resource limits.  It isn’t
clear when you’re close to the limits, and we’ve had contributors
banned from GitHub Actions for violating the limits.  Even if you
appeal the ban, they still won’t tell you what the actual limits are,
justifying this by saying that if you know the limits, you can take
steps to evade them.  If you enable GitHub Actions, consider not
pushing individual commits if you don’t need them to be automatically
built, or cancelling workflow runs when you don’t need the results.</p></li>
<li><p>If your submission is a computer or other device such as a synthesizer
or sampler which requires a disk, tape, cartridge, or other media to
start up and run, please consider creating a software list containing
at least one example of that media.  This helps everyone making changes
to shared MAME components to easily verify if the changes negatively
impact your code.</p></li>
<li><p>When submitting any new non-arcade machine, but especially a machine
which does not auto-boot and requires some interaction to start up
and be usable, consider adding usage instructions to the
<a class="reference external" href="https://wiki.mamedev.org/index.php/System-Specific_Setup_and_Information">System-Specific Setup and Information</a><span class="link-target"> [https://wiki.mamedev.org/index.php/System-Specific_Setup_and_Information]</span>
page of the <a class="reference external" href="https://wiki.mamedev.org">MAME Wiki</a><span class="link-target"> [https://wiki.mamedev.org]</span>.  Anyone can edit
the wiki after creating an account, and sub-pages for your system
which discuss technical details of the system are also welcome.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>We have guidelines for specific parts of the source:</p>
<div class="toctree-wrapper compound">
<ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="cxx.xhtml">C++ Coding Guidelines</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="softlist.xhtml">Guidelines for Software Lists</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>