<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Guidelines for Software Lists</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="guidelines-for-software-lists">
<span id="contributing-softlist"></span><h1>Guidelines for Software Lists</h1>
<nav class="contents local" id="contents">
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#introduction" id="id1">Introduction</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#items-and-parts" id="id2">Items and parts</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#metadata" id="id3">Metadata</a></p></li>
</ul>
</nav>
<section id="introduction">
<span id="contributing-softlist-intro"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id1" role="doc-backlink">Introduction</a></h2>
<p>MAME’s software lists describe known software media for emulated
systems in a form that can be used to identify media image files for
known software, verify media image file integrity, and load media
image files for emulation.  Software lists are implemented as XML
files in the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">hash</span></code> folder.  The XML structure is described in the
file <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">hash/softwarelist.dtd</span></code>.</p>
<p>Philosophically, software list items should represent the original
media, rather than a specific dump of the media.  Ideally, it should be
possible for anyone with the media to dump it and produce the same image
file.  Of course, this isn’t always possible in practice – in particular
it’s problematic for inherently analog media, like home computer
software stored on audio tape cassettes.</p>
<p>MAME strives to document the best available media images.  It is not our
intention to propagate corrupted, truncated, defaced, watermarked, or
otherwise bad media images.  Where possible, file structures matching
the original media structure are preferred.  For example we prefer
individual files for separate ROM chips in cartridge media, and we use
disk images rather than archives of files extracted from the original
disks.</p>
</section>
<section id="items-and-parts">
<span id="contributing-softlist-itempart"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id2" role="doc-backlink">Items and parts</a></h2>
<p>A software list is a collection of <em>items</em> and each item may have
multiple <em>parts</em>.  An item represents a piece of software, as
distributed as a complete package.  A part represents a single piece of
media within the package.  Parts can be mounted individually in
emulated media devices.  For example a piece of software distributed on
three floppy disks will be a single item, while each floppy disk will be
one part within that item.</p>
<p>Sometimes, logically separate parts of a single physical piece of media
are represented as separate parts within a software item.  For example
each side of an audio tape cassette is represented as a separate part.
However individual ROM chips within a cartridge may be separate files,
but they are <em>not</em> separate parts, as the cartridge is mounted as a
whole.</p>
<p>Each item is a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">software</span></code> element.  The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">software</span></code> element may have
the following attributes:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>name (required)</dt><dd><p>The short name identifying the item.  This is used for file names,
command line arguments, database keys, URL fragments, and many other
purposes.  It should be terse but still recognisable.  It must be
unique within the software list.  Valid characters are lowercase
English letters, decimal digits and underscores.  The maximum
allowed length is sixteen characters.</p>
</dd>
<dt>cloneof (optional)</dt><dd><p>The short name of the parent item if the item is a clone.  The
parent must be within the same software list – parent/clone
relationships spanning multiple software lists are not supported.</p>
</dd>
<dt>supported (optional)</dt><dd><p>One of the values <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">yes</span></code> (fully usable in emulation), <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">no</span></code> (not
usable in emulation), or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">partial</span></code> (usable in emulation with
limitations).  If the attribute is not present, it is equivalent to
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">yes</span></code>.  Examples of partially supported software include games
that are playable with graphical glitches, and office software where
some but not all functionality works.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Each part is a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">part</span></code> element within the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">software</span></code> element.  The
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">part</span></code> element must have the following attributes:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>name (required)</dt><dd><p>The short name identifying the part.  This is used for command line
arguments, database keys, URL fragments, and many other purposes.
It must be unique within the item.  It is also used as the display
name if a separate display name is not provided.  Valid characters
are lowercase English letters, decimal digits and underscores.  The
maximum allowed length is sixteen characters.</p>
</dd>
<dt>interface (required)</dt><dd><p>This attribute is used to identify suitable emulated media devices
for mounting the software part.  Applicable values depend on the
emulated system.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="metadata">
<span id="contributing-softlist-metadata"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id3" role="doc-backlink">Metadata</a></h2>
<p>Software lists support various kinds of metadata.  All software list
items require the following metadata elements to be present:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>description</dt><dd><p>This is the primary display name for the software item.  It should
be the original name of the software, transliterated into English
Latin script if necessary.  It must be unique within the software
list.  If extra text besides the title itself is required for
disambiguation, use lowercase outside of proper nouns, initialisms
and verbatim quotes.</p>
</dd>
<dt>year</dt><dd><p>The year of release or copyright year for the software.  If unknown,
use an estimate with a question mark.  Items can be filtered by year
in the software selection menu.</p>
</dd>
<dt>publisher</dt><dd><p>The publisher of the software.  This may be the same as the
developer if the software was self-published.  Items can be filtered
by published in the software selection menu.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Most user-visible software item metadata is provided using <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">info</span></code>
elements.  Each <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">info</span></code> element must have a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attribute and a
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">value</span></code> attribute.  The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attribute identifies the type of
metadata, and the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">value</span></code> attribute is the metadata value itself.
Note that <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attributes do not need to be unique within an item.
Multiple <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">info</span></code> elements with the same <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> may be present if
appropriate.  This is frequently seen for software sold using different
titles in different regions.</p>
<p>Prefer multiple <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">info</span></code> elements with the same <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attribute over
combining multiple values into a single element.  For example if a piece
of software supports multiple user interface languages, use multiple
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">info</span></code> elements with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name=&quot;language&quot;</span></code> attributes.  This makes
filtering and database queries more practical.</p>
<p>MAME displays metadata from <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">info</span></code> elements in the software selection
menu.  The following <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attributes are recognised specifically,
and can show localised names:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>alt_title</dt><dd><p>Used for alternate titles.  Examples are different tiles used in
different languages, scripts or regions, or different titles used
on the title screen and packaging.  MAME searches alternate titles
as well as the description.</p>
</dd>
<dt>author</dt><dd><p>Author of the software.  Items can be filtered by author in the
software selection menu.</p>
</dd>
<dt>barcode</dt><dd><p>Barcode number identifying the software package (typically an EAN).</p>
</dd>
<dt>developer</dt><dd><p>Developer responsible for implementing the software.  Items can be
filtered by developer in the software selection menu.</p>
</dd>
<dt>distributor</dt><dd><p>Party responsible for distributing the software to retailers (or
customers in the case of direct sales).  Items can be filtered by
distributor in the software selection menu.</p>
</dd>
<dt>install</dt><dd><p>Installation instructions.</p>
</dd>
<dt>isbn</dt><dd><p>ISBN for software included with a commercial book.</p>
</dd>
<dt>language</dt><dd><p>User interface language supported by the software.</p>
</dd>
<dt>oem</dt><dd><p>Original equipment manufacturer, typically used with customised
versions of software distributed by a hardware vendor.</p>
</dd>
<dt>original_publisher</dt><dd><p>The original publisher, for items representing software re-released
by a different publisher.</p>
</dd>
<dt>partno</dt><dd><p>Distributor’s part number for the software.</p>
</dd>
<dt>pcb</dt><dd><p>Printed circuit board identifier, typically for cartridge media.</p>
</dd>
<dt>programmer</dt><dd><p>Programmer who wrote the code for the software.</p>
</dd>
<dt>release</dt><dd><p>Fine-grained release date for the software, if known.  Use
YYYYMMDD format with no punctuation.  If only the month is known,
use “xx” for the day digits.  For example <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">199103xx</span></code> or
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">19940729</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
<dt>serial</dt><dd><p>Number identifying the software within a series of releases.</p>
</dd>
<dt>usage</dt><dd><p>Usage instructions.</p>
</dd>
<dt>version</dt><dd><p>Version number of the software.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>