<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Other tools included with MAME</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="other-tools-included-with-mame">
<h1>Other tools included with MAME</h1>
<section id="ledutil-exe-ledutil-sh">
<h2>ledutil.exe/ledutil.sh</h2>
<p>On Microsoft Windows, ledutil.exe can take control of your keyboard LEDs to mirror those that were present on some early arcade games (e.g. Asteroids)</p>
<p>Start <strong>ledutil.exe</strong> from the command line to enable LED handling. Run <strong>ledutil.exe -kill</strong> to stop the handler.</p>
<p>On SDLMAME platforms such as Mac OS X and Linux, <strong>ledutil.sh</strong> can be used. Use <strong>ledutil.sh -a</strong> to have it automatically close when you exit SDLMAME.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section id="developer-focused-tools-included-with-mame">
<h1>Developer-focused tools included with MAME</h1>
<section id="pngcmp">
<h2>pngcmp</h2>
<p>This tool is used in regression testing to compare PNG screenshot results with the runtest.cmd script found in the source archive. This script works only on Microsoft Windows.</p>
</section>
<section id="nltool">
<h2>nltool</h2>
<p>Discrete component conversion tool.</p>
</section>
<section id="nlwav">
<h2>nlwav</h2>
<p>Discrete component conversion and testing tool.</p>
</section>
<section id="jedutil">
<h2>jedutil</h2>
<p>PAL/PLA/PLD/GAL dump handling tool. It can convert between the industry-standard JED format and MAME's proprietary packed binary format and it can show logic equations for the types of devices it knows the internal logic of.</p>
</section>
<section id="ldresample">
<h2>ldresample</h2>
<p>This tool recompresses video data for laserdisc and VHS dumps.</p>
</section>
<section id="ldverify">
<h2>ldverify</h2>
<p>This tool is used for comparing laserdisc or VHS CHD images with the source AVI.</p>
</section>
<section id="romcmp">
<h2>romcmp</h2>
<p>This tool is used to perform basic data comparisons and integrity checks on binary dumps. With the -h switch, it can also be used to calculate hash functions.</p>
</section>
<section id="unidasm">
<h2>unidasm</h2>
<p>Universal disassembler for many of the architectures supported in MAME.</p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>