<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>BGFX Effects for (nearly) Everyone</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="bgfx-effects-for-nearly-everyone">
<h1>BGFX Effects for (nearly) Everyone</h1>
<nav class="contents local" id="contents">
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#introduction" id="id1">Introduction</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#resolution-and-aspect-ratio" id="id2">Resolution and Aspect Ratio</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#getting-started-with-bgfx" id="id3">Getting Started with BGFX</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#configuration-settings" id="id4">Configuration Settings</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#tweaking-bgfx-hlsl-settings-inside-mame" id="id5">Tweaking BGFX HLSL Settings inside MAME</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#using-the-included-pillarbox-filters" id="id6">Using the included pillarbox filters</a></p></li>
</ul>
</nav>
<section id="introduction">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id1" role="doc-backlink">Introduction</a></h2>
<p>By default, MAME outputs an idealized version of the video as it would be on the
way to the arcade cabinet’s monitor, with minimal modification of the output
(primarily to stretch the game image back to the aspect ratio the monitor would
traditionally have, usually 4:3).  This works well, but misses some of the
nostalgia factor.  Arcade monitors were never ideal, even in perfect condition,
and the nature of a CRT display distorts that image in ways that change the
appearance significantly.</p>
<p>Modern LCD monitors simply do not look the same, and even computer CRT monitors
cannot match the look of an arcade monitor without help.</p>
<p>That’s where the new BGFX renderer with HLSL comes into the picture.</p>
<p>HLSL simulates most of the effects that a CRT arcade monitor has on the video,
making the result look a lot more authentic.  However, HLSL requires some effort
on the user’s part: the settings you use are going to be tailored to your PC’s
system specs, and especially the monitor you’re using.  Additionally, there were
hundreds of thousands of monitors out there in arcades.  Each was tuned and
maintained differently, meaning there is no one correct appearance to judge by
either.  Basic guidelines will be provided here to help you, but you may also
wish to ask for opinions on popular MAME-centric forums.</p>
</section>
<section id="resolution-and-aspect-ratio">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id2" role="doc-backlink">Resolution and Aspect Ratio</a></h2>
<p>Resolution is a very important subject for HLSL settings.  You will want MAME to
be using the native resolution of your monitor to avoid additional distortion
and lag caused by your monitor upscaling the display image.</p>
<p>While most arcade machines used a 4:3 ratio display (or 3:4 for vertically
oriented monitors like Pac-Man), it’s difficult to find a consumer display that
is 4:3 at this point.  The good news is that that extra space on the sides isn’t
wasted.  Many arcade cabinets used bezel artwork around the main display, and
should you have the necessary artwork files, MAME will display that artwork.
Turn the <strong>Zoom to Screen Area</strong> setting in the video options menu to scale and
crop the artwork so the emulated screen fills your display in one direction.</p>
<p>Some older LCD displays used a native resolution of 1280×1024 and were a 5:4
aspect ratio.  There’s not enough extra space to display artwork, and you’ll end
up with some very slight pillarboxing, but the results will be still be good and
on-par with a 4:3 monitor.</p>
</section>
<section id="getting-started-with-bgfx">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id3" role="doc-backlink">Getting Started with BGFX</a></h2>
<p>You will need to have followed the initial MAME setup instructions elsewhere in
this manual before beginning.  Official MAME distributions include BGFX as of
MAME 0.172, so you don’t need to download any additional files.</p>
<p>Open your <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame.ini</span></code> file in your text editor of choice (e.g. Notepad), and
make sure the following options are set correctly:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">video</span> <span class="pre">bgfx</span></code></p></li>
</ul>
<p>Now, you may want to take a moment to look below at the Configuration Settings
section to see how to set up these next options.</p>
<p>As explained in <a class="reference internal" href="multiconfig.xhtml#advanced-multi-cfg"><span class="std std-ref">Order of Config Loading</span></a>, MAME has a order in which it
processes INI files.  The BGFX settings can be edited in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame.ini</span></code>, but to
take full advantage of the power of MAME’s configuration files, you’ll want to
copy the BGFX settings from <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mame.ini</span></code> to one of the other configuration files
and make changes there.</p>
<p>In particular, you will want the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bgfx_screen_chains</span></code> to be specific to each
game.</p>
<p>Save your INI file(s) and you’re ready to begin.</p>
</section>
<section id="configuration-settings">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id4" role="doc-backlink">Configuration Settings</a></h2>
<dl>
<dt>bgfx_path</dt><dd><p>This is where your BGFX shader files are stored.  By default, this will be
the <em>bgfx</em> folder in your MAME installation folder.</p>
</dd>
<dt>bgfx_backend</dt><dd><p>Selects a rendering backend for BGFX to use.  Possible choices include
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">auto</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">d3d9</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">d3d11</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">d3d12</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">opengl</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">gles</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">metal</span></code>, and
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">vulkan</span></code>. The default is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">auto</span></code>, which will let MAME choose the
best selection for you.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">d3d9</span></code> -- Direct3D 9.0 Renderer (Requires Windows XP or higher)</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">d3d11</span></code> -- Direct3D 11.0 Renderer (Requires Windows Vista with
Direct3D 11 update, or Windows 7 or higher)</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">d3d12</span></code> -- Direct3D 12.0 Renderer (Requires Windows 10 or higher)</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">opengl</span></code> -- OpenGL Renderer (Requires OpenGL drivers, may work better on
some video cards, supported on Linux and macOS)</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">gles</span></code> -- OpenGL ES Renderer (Supported with some low-power GPUs)</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">metal</span></code> -- Apple Metal Graphics API (Requires macOS 10.11 El Capitan or
newer)</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">vulkan</span></code> -- Vulkan Renderer (Requires Windows or Linux with compatible
GPU drivers.</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">auto</span></code> -- MAME will automatically choose the best selection for you.</p></li>
</ul>
</dd>
<dt>bgfx_debug</dt><dd><p>Enables BGFX debugging features.  Most users will not need to use this.</p>
</dd>
<dt>bgfx_screen_chains</dt><dd><p>This dictates how to handle BGFX rendering on a per-display basis.  Possible
choices include <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">hlsl</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">unfiltered</span></code>, and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">default</span></code>.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">default</span></code> -- <strong>default</strong> bilinear filtered output</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">unfiltered</span></code> -- nearest neighbor sampled output</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">hlsl</span></code> -- display simulation through shaders</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">crt-geom</span></code> -- lightweight CRT simulation</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">crt-geom-deluxe</span></code> -- more detailed CRT simulation</p></li>
<li><p><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">lcd-grid</span></code> -- LCD matrix simulation</p></li>
</ul>
<p>We make a distinction between emulated screens (which we’ll call a <em>screen</em>)
and output windows or monitors (which we’ll call a <em>window</em>, set by the
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">-numscreens</span></code> option) here.  Use colons (:) to separate windows, and
commas (,) to separate screens in the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">-bgfx_screen_chains</span></code> setting value.</p>
<p>For the simple single window, single screen case, such as Pac-Man on one
physical PC monitor, you can specify one entry like:</p>
<div class="highlight-default notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="n">bgfx_screen_chains</span> <span class="n">hlsl</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Things get only slightly more complicated when we get to multiple windows
and multiple screens.</p>
<p>On a single window, multiple screen game, such as Darius on one physical PC
monitor, specify screen chains (one per window) like:</p>
<div class="highlight-default notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="n">bgfx_screen_chains</span> <span class="n">hlsl</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="n">hlsl</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="n">hlsl</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>This also works with single screen games where you are mirroring the output
to more than one physical display.  For instance, you could set up Pac-Man
to have one unfiltered output for use with video broadcasting while a second
display is set up HLSL for playing on.</p>
<p>On a multiple window, multiple screen game, such as Darius on three physical
PC monitors, specify multiple entries (one per window) like:</p>
<div class="highlight-default notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="n">bgfx_screen_chains</span> <span class="n">hlsl</span><span class="p">:</span><span class="n">hlsl</span><span class="p">:</span><span class="n">hlsl</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Another example game would be Taisen Hot Gimmick, which used two CRTs to
show individual player hands to just that player.  If using two windows (two
physical displays):</p>
<div class="highlight-default notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="n">bgfx_screen_chains</span> <span class="n">hlsl</span><span class="p">:</span><span class="n">hlsl</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>One more special case is that Nichibutsu had a special cocktail mahjong
cabinet that used a CRT in the middle along with two LCD displays to show
each player their hand.  We would want the LCDs to be unfiltered and
untouched as they were, while the CRT would be improved through HLSL.  Since
we want to give each player their own full screen display (two physical
monitors) along with the LCD, we’ll go with:</p>
<div class="highlight-default notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="o">-</span><span class="n">numscreens</span> <span class="mi">2</span> <span class="o">-</span><span class="n">view0</span> <span class="s2">&quot;Player 1&quot;</span> <span class="o">-</span><span class="n">view1</span> <span class="s2">&quot;Player 2&quot;</span> <span class="o">-</span><span class="n">video</span> <span class="n">bgfx</span> <span class="o">-</span><span class="n">bgfx_screen_chains</span> <span class="n">hlsl</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="n">unfiltered</span><span class="p">:</span><span class="n">hlsl</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="n">unfiltered</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>This sets up the view for each display respectively, keeping HLSL effect on
the CRT for each window (physical display) while going unfiltered for the
LCD screens.</p>
<p>If using only one window (one display), keep in mind the game still has
three screens, so we would use:</p>
<div class="highlight-default notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="n">bgfx_screen_chains</span> <span class="n">hlsl</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="n">unfiltered</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="n">unfiltered</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Note that the commas are on the outside edges, and any colons are in the
middle.</p>
</dd>
<dt>bgfx_shadow_mask</dt><dd><p>This specifies the shadow mask effect PNG file.  By default this is
<strong>slot-mask.png</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="tweaking-bgfx-hlsl-settings-inside-mame">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id5" role="doc-backlink">Tweaking BGFX HLSL Settings inside MAME</a></h2>
<p>Start by loading MAME with the game of your choice (e.g. <strong>mame pacman</strong>).</p>
<p>The tilde key (<strong>~</strong>) brings up the on-screen display options.  Use up and down
to go through the various settings, while left and right will allow you to
change that setting.  Results will be shown in real time as you’re changing
these settings.</p>
<p>Note that settings are individually changeable on a per-screen basis.</p>
<p>BGFX slider settings are saved per-system in CFG files.  If the
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bgfx_screen_chains</span></code> setting has been set (either in an INI file or on the
command line), it will set the initial effects.  If the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bgfx_screen_chains</span></code>
setting has not been set, MAME will use the effects you chose the last time you
ran the system.</p>
</section>
<section id="using-the-included-pillarbox-filters">
<h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id6" role="doc-backlink">Using the included pillarbox filters</a></h2>
<p>MAME includes example BGFX shaders and layouts for filling unused space on a
16:9 widescreen display with a blurred version of the emulated video.  The all
the necessary files are included, and just need to be enabled.</p>
<p>For systems using 4:3 horizontal monitors, use these options:</p>
<div class="highlight-default notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="o">-</span><span class="n">override_artwork</span> <span class="n">bgfx</span><span class="o">/</span><span class="n">border_blur</span> <span class="o">-</span><span class="n">view</span> <span class="n">Horizontal</span> <span class="o">-</span><span class="n">bgfx_screen_chains</span> <span class="n">crt</span><span class="o">-</span><span class="n">geom</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="n">pillarbox_left_horizontal</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="n">pillarbox_right_horizontal</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>For systems using 3:4 vertical monitors, use these options:</p>
<div class="highlight-default notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="o">-</span><span class="n">override_artwork</span> <span class="n">bgfx</span><span class="o">/</span><span class="n">border_blur</span> <span class="o">-</span><span class="n">view</span> <span class="n">Vertical</span> <span class="o">-</span><span class="n">bgfx_screen_chains</span> <span class="n">crt</span><span class="o">-</span><span class="n">geom</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="n">pillarbox_left_vertical</span><span class="p">,</span><span class="n">pillarbox_right_vertical</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>You can use a different setting in place of <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">crt-geom</span></code> for the effect to
apply to the primary screen image in the centre (e.g. <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">default</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">hlsl</span></code> or
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">lcd-grid</span></code>).</p></li>
<li><p>If you’ve previously changed the view for the system in MAME, the correct
pillarboxed view will not be selected by default.  Use the video options menu
to select the correct view.</p></li>
<li><p>You can add these settings to an INI file to have them apply to certain
systems automatically (e.g. <strong>horizont.ini</strong> or <strong>vertical.ini</strong>, or the INI
file for a specific system).</p></li>
</ul>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>