<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Controller Configuration Files</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="controller-configuration-files">
<span id="ctrlrcfg"></span><h1>Controller Configuration Files</h1>
<nav class="contents local" id="contents">
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#introduction" id="id1">Introduction</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#basic-structure" id="id2">Basic structure</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#substituting-default-controls" id="id3">Substituting default controls</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#overriding-defaults-by-input-type" id="id4">Overriding defaults by input type</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#overriding-defaults-for-specific-inputs" id="id5">Overriding defaults for specific inputs</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#assigning-input-device-numbers" id="id6">Assigning input device numbers</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#setting-pointer-input-options" id="id7">Setting pointer input options</a></p></li>
</ul>
</nav>
<section id="introduction">
<span id="ctrlrcfg-intro"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id1" role="doc-backlink">Introduction</a></h2>
<p>Controller configuration files can be used to modify MAME’s default input
settings.  Controller configuration files may be supplied with an input device
to provide more suitable defaults, or used as profiles that can be selected for
different situations.  MAME includes a few sample controller configuration files
in the <strong>ctrlr</strong> folder, designed to provide useful defaults for certain
arcade-style controllers.</p>
<p>Controller configuration files are an XML application, using the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">.cfg</span></code>
filename extension.  MAME searches for controller configuration files in the
directories specified using the <a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-ctrlrpath"><span class="std std-ref">ctrlrpath</span></a>
option.  A controller configuration file is selected by setting the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">ctrlr</span></code>
option to its filename, excluding the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">.cfg</span></code> extension (e.g. set the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">ctrlr</span></code>
option to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">scorpionxg</span></code> to use <strong>scorpionxg.cfg</strong>).  It is an error if the
specified controller configuration file does not exist, or if it contains no
sections applicable to the emulated system.</p>
<p>Controller configuration files use implementation-dependent input tokens.  The
values available and their precise meanings depend on the exact version of MAME
used, the input devices connected, the selected input provider modules
(<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-keyboardprovider"><span class="std std-ref">keyboardprovider</span></a>,
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-mouseprovider"><span class="std std-ref">mouseprovider</span></a>, <a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-lightgunprovider"><span class="std std-ref">lightgunprovider</span></a> and <a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-joystickprovider"><span class="std std-ref">joystickprovider</span></a> options), and possibly other settings.</p>
</section>
<section id="basic-structure">
<span id="ctrlrcfg-structure"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id2" role="doc-backlink">Basic structure</a></h2>
<p>Controller configuration files follow a similar format to the system
configuration files that MAME uses to save things like input settings and
bookkeeping data (created in the folder specified using the
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-cfgdirectory"><span class="std std-ref">cfg_directory option</span></a>).  This example
shows the overall structure of a controller configuration file:</p>
<div class="highlight-XML notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="cp">&lt;?xml version=&quot;1.0&quot;?&gt;</span>
<span class="nt">&lt;mameconfig</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">version=</span><span class="s">&quot;10&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;system</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">name=</span><span class="s">&quot;default&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;input&gt;</span>
<span class="w">            </span><span class="cm">&lt;!-- settings affecting all emulated systems go here --&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;/input&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/system&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;system</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">name=</span><span class="s">&quot;neogeo&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;input&gt;</span>
<span class="w">            </span><span class="cm">&lt;!-- settings affecting neogeo and clones go here --&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;/input&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/system&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;system</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">name=</span><span class="s">&quot;intellec4.cpp&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;input&gt;</span>
<span class="w">            </span><span class="cm">&lt;!-- settings affecting all systems defined in intellec4.cpp go here --&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;/input&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/system&gt;</span>
<span class="nt">&lt;/mameconfig&gt;</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>The root of a controller configuration file must be a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mameconfig</span></code> element,
with a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">version</span></code> attribute specifying the configuration format version
(currently <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">10</span></code> – MAME will not load a file using a different version).  The
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mameconfig</span></code> element contains one or more <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code> elements, each of which
has a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attribute specifying the system(s) it applies to.  Each
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code> element may contain an <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">input</span></code> element which holds the actual
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">remap</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">port</span></code> configuration elements, which will be described later.
Each <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code> element may also contain a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">pointer_input</span></code> element to set
pointer input options for systems with interactive artwork.</p>
<p>When launching an emulated system, MAME will apply configuration from <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code>
elements where the value of the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attribute meets one of the following
criteria:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p>If the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attribute has the value <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">default</span></code>, it will always be applied
(including for the system/software selection menus).</p></li>
<li><p>If the value of the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attribute matches the system’s short name, the
short name of its parent system, or the short name of its BIOS system (if
applicable).</p></li>
<li><p>If the value of the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attribute matches the name of the source file
where the system is defined.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>For example, for the game “DaeJeon! SanJeon SuJeon (AJTUE 990412 V1.000)”,
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code> elements will be applied if their <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attribute has the value
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">default</span></code> (applies to all systems), <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">sanjeon</span></code> (short name of the system
itself), <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">sasissu</span></code> (short name of the parent system), <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stvbios</span></code> (short
name of the BIOS system), or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stv.cpp</span></code> (source file where the system is
defined).</p>
<p>As another example, a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code> element whose <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attribute has the value
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">zac2650.cpp</span></code> will be applied for the systems “The Invaders”, “Super Invader
Attack (bootleg of The Invaders)”, and “Dodgem”.</p>
<p>Applicable <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code> elements are applied in the order they appear in the
controller configuration file.  Settings from elements that appear later in the
file may modify or override settings from elements that appear earlier.  Within
a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code> element, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">remap</span></code> elements are applied before <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">port</span></code> elements.</p>
</section>
<section id="substituting-default-controls">
<span id="ctrlrcfg-substitute"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id3" role="doc-backlink">Substituting default controls</a></h2>
<p>You can use a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">remap</span></code> element to substitute one host input for another in
MAME’s default input configuration.  For example, this substitutes keys on the
numeric keypad for the cursor direction keys:</p>
<div class="highlight-XML notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="nt">&lt;input&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;remap</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">origcode=</span><span class="s">&quot;KEYCODE_UP&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">newcode=</span><span class="s">&quot;KEYCODE_8PAD&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nt">/&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;remap</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">origcode=</span><span class="s">&quot;KEYCODE_DOWN&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">newcode=</span><span class="s">&quot;KEYCODE_2PAD&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nt">/&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;remap</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">origcode=</span><span class="s">&quot;KEYCODE_LEFT&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">newcode=</span><span class="s">&quot;KEYCODE_4PAD&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nt">/&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;remap</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">origcode=</span><span class="s">&quot;KEYCODE_RIGHT&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">newcode=</span><span class="s">&quot;KEYCODE_6PAD&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nt">/&gt;</span>
<span class="nt">&lt;/input&gt;</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">origcode</span></code> attribute specifies the token for the host input to be
substituted, and the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">newcode</span></code> attribute specifies the token for the
replacement host input.  In this case, assignments using the cursor up, down,
left and right arrows will be replaced with the numeric 8, 2, 4 and 6 keys on
the numeric keypad, respectively.</p>
<p>Note that substitutions specified using <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">remap</span></code> elements only apply to inputs
that use MAME’s default assignment for the input type.  That is, they only apply
to default assignments for control types set in the “Input Assignments
(general)” menus.  They <em>do not</em> apply to default control assignments set in
driver/device I/O port definitions (using the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PORT_CODE</span></code> macro).</p>
<p>MAME applies <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">remap</span></code> elements found inside any applicable <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code> element.</p>
</section>
<section id="overriding-defaults-by-input-type">
<span id="ctrlrcfg-typeoverride"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id4" role="doc-backlink">Overriding defaults by input type</a></h2>
<p>Use <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">port</span></code> elements with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">type</span></code> attributes but without <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">tag</span></code> attributes to
override the default control assignments for emulated inputs by type:</p>
<div class="highlight-XML notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="nt">&lt;input&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;port</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;UI_MENU&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;newseq</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;standard&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>KEYCODE_TAB<span class="w"> </span>OR<span class="w"> </span>KEYCODE_1<span class="w"> </span>KEYCODE_5<span class="nt">&lt;/newseq&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/port&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;port</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;UI_CANCEL&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;newseq</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;standard&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>KEYCODE_ESC<span class="w"> </span>OR<span class="w"> </span>KEYCODE_2<span class="w"> </span>KEYCODE_6<span class="nt">&lt;/newseq&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/port&gt;</span>

<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;port</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;P1_BUTTON1&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;newseq</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;standard&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>KEYCODE_C<span class="w"> </span>OR<span class="w"> </span>JOYCODE_1_BUTTON1<span class="nt">&lt;/newseq&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/port&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;port</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;P1_BUTTON2&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;newseq</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;standard&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>KEYCODE_LSHIFT<span class="w"> </span>OR<span class="w"> </span>JOYCODE_1_BUTTON2<span class="nt">&lt;/newseq&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/port&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;port</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;P1_BUTTON3&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;newseq</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;standard&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>KEYCODE_Z<span class="w"> </span>OR<span class="w"> </span>JOYCODE_1_BUTTON3<span class="nt">&lt;/newseq&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/port&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;port</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;P1_BUTTON4&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;newseq</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;standard&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>KEYCODE_X<span class="w"> </span>OR<span class="w"> </span>JOYCODE_1_BUTTON4<span class="nt">&lt;/newseq&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/port&gt;</span>
<span class="nt">&lt;/input&gt;</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>This sets the following default input assignments:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>Show/Hide Menu (User Interface)</dt><dd><p>Tab key, or 1 and 2 keys pressed simultaneously</p>
</dd>
<dt>UI Cancel (User Interface)</dt><dd><p>Escape key, or 2 and 6 keys pressed simultaneously</p>
</dd>
<dt>P1 Button 1 (Player 1 Controls)</dt><dd><p>C key, or joystick 1 button 1</p>
</dd>
<dt>P1 Button 2 (Player 1 Controls)</dt><dd><p>Left Shift key, or joystick 1 button 2</p>
</dd>
<dt>P1 Button 3 (Player 1 Controls)</dt><dd><p>Z key, or joystick 1 button 3</p>
</dd>
<dt>P1 Button 4 (Player 1 Controls)</dt><dd><p>X key, or joystick 1 button 4</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Note that this will only apply for inputs that use MAME’s default assignment for
the input type.  That is, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">port</span></code> elements without <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">tag</span></code> attributes only
override default assignments for control types set in the “Input Assignments
(general)” menus.  They <em>do not</em> override default control assignments set in
driver/device I/O port definitions (using the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PORT_CODE</span></code> macro).</p>
<p>MAME applies <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">port</span></code> elements without <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">tag</span></code> attributes found inside any
applicable <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code> element.</p>
</section>
<section id="overriding-defaults-for-specific-inputs">
<span id="ctrlrcfg-ctrloverride"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id5" role="doc-backlink">Overriding defaults for specific inputs</a></h2>
<p>Use <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">port</span></code> elements with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">tag</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">type</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mask</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">defvalue</span></code>
attributes to override defaults for specific inputs.  These <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">port</span></code> elements
should only occur inside <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code> elements that apply to particular systems or
source files (i.e. they should not occur inside <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code> elements where the
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attribute has the value <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">default</span></code>).  The default control assignments
can be overridden, as well as the toggle setting for digital inputs.</p>
<p>The <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">tag</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">type</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mask</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">defvalue</span></code> are used to identify the
affected input.  You can find out the values to use for a particular input by
changing its control assignment, exiting MAME, and checking the values in the
system configuration file (created in the folder specified using the
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-cfgdirectory"><span class="std std-ref">cfg_directory option</span></a>).  Note that these
values are not guaranteed to be stable, and may change between MAME versions.</p>
<p>Here’s an example that overrides defaults for 280-ZZZAP:</p>
<div class="highlight-XML notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="nt">&lt;system</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">name=</span><span class="s">&quot;280zzzap&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;input&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;port</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">tag=</span><span class="s">&quot;:IN0&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;P1_BUTTON2&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">mask=</span><span class="s">&quot;16&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">defvalue=</span><span class="s">&quot;0&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">toggle=</span><span class="s">&quot;no&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nt">/&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;port</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">tag=</span><span class="s">&quot;:IN1&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;P1_PADDLE&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">mask=</span><span class="s">&quot;255&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">defvalue=</span><span class="s">&quot;127&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">            </span><span class="nt">&lt;newseq</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;increment&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>KEYCODE_K<span class="nt">&lt;/newseq&gt;</span>
<span class="w">            </span><span class="nt">&lt;newseq</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">type=</span><span class="s">&quot;decrement&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>KEYCODE_J<span class="nt">&lt;/newseq&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;/port&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/input&gt;</span>
<span class="nt">&lt;/system&gt;</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>This sets the controls to steer left and right to the K and J keys,
respectively, and disables the toggle setting for the gear shift input.</p>
</section>
<section id="assigning-input-device-numbers">
<span id="ctrlrcfg-mapdevice"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id6" role="doc-backlink">Assigning input device numbers</a></h2>
<p>Use <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mapdevice</span></code> elements with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device</span></code> and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">controller</span></code> attributes to
assign stable numbers to input devices.  Note that all devices explicitly
configured in this way must be connected when MAME starts for this to work as
expected.</p>
<p>Set the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">device</span></code> attribute to the device ID of the input device, and set the
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">controller</span></code> attribute to the desired input device token (device type and
number).</p>
<p>Here’s an example numbering two light guns and two XInput game controllers:</p>
<div class="highlight-XML notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="nt">&lt;system</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">name=</span><span class="s">&quot;default&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;input&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;mapdevice</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">device=</span><span class="s">&quot;VID_D209&amp;amp;PID_1601&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">controller=</span><span class="s">&quot;GUNCODE_1&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nt">/&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;mapdevice</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">device=</span><span class="s">&quot;VID_D209&amp;amp;PID_1602&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">controller=</span><span class="s">&quot;GUNCODE_2&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nt">/&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;mapdevice</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">device=</span><span class="s">&quot;XInput Player 1&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">controller=</span><span class="s">&quot;JOYCODE_1&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nt">/&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;mapdevice</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">device=</span><span class="s">&quot;XInput Player 2&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">controller=</span><span class="s">&quot;JOYCODE_2&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nt">/&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/input&gt;</span>
<span class="nt">&lt;/system&gt;</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>MAME applies <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mapdevice</span></code> elements found inside the first applicable <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code>
element only.  To avoid confusion, it’s simplest to place the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">system</span></code> element
applying to all systems (<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">name</span></code> attribute set to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">default</span></code>) first in the
file, and use it to assign input device numbers.</p>
</section>
<section id="setting-pointer-input-options">
<span id="ctrlrcfg-pointers"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id7" role="doc-backlink">Setting pointer input options</a></h2>
<p>A <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">pointer_input</span></code> element may contain <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">target</span></code> elements to set pointer input
options for each output screen or window.  Each <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">target</span></code> element must have an
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">index</span></code> attribute containing the zero-based index of the screen to which it
applies.</p>
<p>Each <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">target</span></code> element may have an <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">activity_timeout</span></code> attribute to set the
time after which a mouse pointer that has not moved and has no buttons pressed
will be considered inactive.  The value is specified in seconds, and must be in
the range of 0.1 seconds to 10 seconds, inclusive.</p>
<p>Each <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">target</span></code> element may have a <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">hide_inactive</span></code> element to set whether
inactive pointers may be hidden.  If the value is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">0</span></code> (zero), inactive
pointers will not be hidden.  If the value is <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">1</span></code>, inactive pointers may be
hidden, but layout views can still specify that inactive pointers should not be
hidden.</p>
<p>Here’s an example demonstrating the use of this feature:</p>
<div class="highlight-XML notranslate"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="nt">&lt;system</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">name=</span><span class="s">&quot;default&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;pointer_input&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;target</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">index=</span><span class="s">&quot;0&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">activity_timeout=</span><span class="s">&quot;1.5&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nt">/&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/pointer_input&gt;</span>
<span class="nt">&lt;/system&gt;</span>
<span class="nt">&lt;system</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">name=</span><span class="s">&quot;intellec4.cpp&quot;</span><span class="nt">&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;pointer_input&gt;</span>
<span class="w">        </span><span class="nt">&lt;target</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">index=</span><span class="s">&quot;0&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="na">hide_inactive=</span><span class="s">&quot;0&quot;</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="nt">/&gt;</span>
<span class="w">    </span><span class="nt">&lt;/pointer_input&gt;</span>
<span class="nt">&lt;/system&gt;</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>For all systems, pointers over the first output screen or window will be
considered inactive after not moving for 1.5 seconds with no buttons pressed.
For systems defined in <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">intellec4.cpp</span></code>, inactive pointers over the first
window will not be hidden.</p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>