<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Data Plugin</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="data-plugin">
<span id="plugins-data"></span><h1>Data Plugin</h1>
<p>The data plugin loads information from various external support files so it can
be displayed in MAME.  If the plugin is enabled, info is show in the <strong>Infos</strong>
tab of the right-hand pane on the system and software selection menus.  The info
viewer can be shown by clicking the toolbar button on the system and software
selection menus, or by choosing <strong>External DAT View</strong> from the main menu during
emulation (this menu item will not appear if the data plugin is not enabled, or
if no information is available for the emulated system).</p>
<p>To set the folders where the data plugin looks for supported files, choose
<strong>Configure Options</strong> on the system selection menu, then choose
<strong>Configure Directories</strong>, and then choose <strong>DATs</strong>.  You can also set the
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">historypath</span></code> option in your <strong>ui.ini</strong> file.</p>
<p>Loading large data files like <strong>history.xml</strong> can take quite a while, so please
be patient the first time you start MAME after updating or adding new data
files.</p>
<p>The following files are supported:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>history.xml</dt><dd><p>From Gaming-History (formerly Arcade-History)</p>
</dd>
<dt>mameinfo.dat</dt><dd><p>From <a class="reference external" href="https://mameinfo.mameworld.info/">MASH’s MAMEINFO</a><span class="link-target"> [https://mameinfo.mameworld.info/]</span></p>
</dd>
<dt>messinfo.dat</dt><dd><p>From <a class="reference external" href="https://www.progettosnaps.net/messinfo/">progetto-SNAPS MESSINFO.dat</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.progettosnaps.net/messinfo/]</span></p>
</dd>
<dt>gameinit.dat</dt><dd><p>From <a class="reference external" href="https://www.progettosnaps.net/gameinit/">progetto-SNAPS GameInit.dat</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.progettosnaps.net/gameinit/]</span></p>
</dd>
<dt>command.dat</dt><dd><p>from <a class="reference external" href="https://www.progettosnaps.net/command/">progetto-SNAPS Command.dat</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.progettosnaps.net/command/]</span></p>
</dd>
<dt>score3.htm</dt><dd><p><a class="reference external" href="http://replay.marpirc.net/txt/scores3.htm">Top Scores</a><span class="link-target"> [http://replay.marpirc.net/txt/scores3.htm]</span> from
the <a class="reference external" href="http://replay.marpirc.net/">MAME Action Replay Page</a><span class="link-target"> [http://replay.marpirc.net/]</span></p>
</dd>
<dt>Japanese mameinfo.dat and command.dat</dt><dd><p>From <a class="reference external" href="https://e2j.net/downloads/">MAME E2J</a><span class="link-target"> [https://e2j.net/downloads/]</span></p>
</dd>
<dt>sysinfo.dat</dt><dd><p>From the defunct Progetto EMMA site</p>
</dd>
<dt>story.dat</dt><dd><p>From the defunct MAMESCORE site</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>If you install <a class="reference external" href="https://greatstoneex.github.io/hi2txt-doc/">hi2txt</a><span class="link-target"> [https://greatstoneex.github.io/hi2txt-doc/]</span>, the data
plugin can also show high scores from non-volatile memory or saved by the
<a class="reference internal" href="hiscore.xhtml#plugins-hiscore"><span class="std std-ref">hiscore support plugin</span></a> for supported games.</p>
<p>Note that you can only use a single file of each type at a time.  You cannot,
for example, use the English and Japanese <strong>mameinfo.dat</strong> files simultaneously.</p>
<p>The data plugin creates a <strong>history.db</strong> file in the <strong>data</strong> folder in the
plugin data folder (see the <a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-homepath"><span class="std std-ref">homepath option</span></a>).
This file stores the information from the support files in a format suitable for
rapid loading.  It uses the SQLite3 database format.</p>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>