<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Plugins</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="plugins">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>Plugins</h1>
<nav class="contents local" id="contents">
<ul class="simple">
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#introduction" id="id2">Introduction</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#using-plugins" id="id3">Using plugins</a></p></li>
<li><p><a class="reference internal" href="#included-plugins" id="id4">Included plugins</a></p></li>
</ul>
</nav>
<section id="introduction">
<span id="plugins-intro"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id2" role="doc-backlink">Introduction</a></h2>
<p>MAME supports plugins that can provide additional functionality.  Plugins
have been written to communicate with external programs, play games
automatically, display internal game structures like hitboxes, provide alternate
user interfaces, and automatically test emulation.  See <a class="reference internal" href="../luascript/index.xhtml#luascript"><span class="std std-ref">Lua Scripting Interface</span></a> for
more information about MAME’s Lua API.</p>
</section>
<section id="using-plugins">
<span id="plugins-using"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id3" role="doc-backlink">Using plugins</a></h2>
<p>To enable plugins, you need to turn on the
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-plugins"><span class="std std-ref">plugins option</span></a>, and make sure the
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-pluginspath"><span class="std std-ref">pluginspath option</span></a> includes the folder
where your plugins are stored.  You can set the plugins option in an INI file
or on the command line.  You can set the pluginspath option by selecting
<strong>Configure Options</strong> from the system selection menu, then selecting
<strong>Configure Directories</strong>, and then selecting <strong>Plugins</strong> (you can also set it
in an INI file or on the command line).</p>
<p>Many plugins need to store settings and/or data.  The
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-homepath"><span class="std std-ref">homepath option</span></a> sets the folder where plugins
should save data (defaults to the working directory).  You can change this by
selecting <strong>Configure Options</strong> from the system selection menu, then selecting
<strong>Configure Directories</strong>, and then selecting <strong>Plugin Data</strong>.</p>
<p>To turn individual plugins on or off, first make sure plugins are enabled, then
select <strong>Configure Options</strong> from the system selection menu, and then select
<strong>Plugins</strong>.  You will need to completely exit MAME and start it again for
changes to the enabled plugins to take effect.  You can also use the
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-plugin"><span class="std std-ref">plugin option</span></a> on the command line, or change
the settings in the <strong>plugin.ini</strong> file.</p>
<p>If an enabled plugin needs additional configuration, or if it needs to show
information, a <strong>Plugin Options</strong> item will appear in the main menu (accessed by
pressing <strong>Tab</strong> during emulation by default).</p>
</section>
<section id="included-plugins">
<span id="plugins-included"></span><h2><a class="toc-backref" href="#id4" role="doc-backlink">Included plugins</a></h2>
<p>MAME includes several plugins providing useful functionality, and serving as
sample code that you can use as a starting point when writing your own plugins.</p>
<div class="toctree-wrapper compound">
<ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="autofire.xhtml">Autofire Plugin</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="console.xhtml">Console Plugin</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="data.xhtml">Data Plugin</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="discord.xhtml">Discord Presence Plugin</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="dummy.xhtml">Dummy Test Plugin</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="gdbstub.xhtml">GDB Stub Plugin</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="hiscore.xhtml">Hiscore Support Plugin</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="inputmacro.xhtml">Input Macro Plugin</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="layout.xhtml">Layout Plugin</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="timecode.xhtml">Timecode Recorder Plugin</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="timer.xhtml">Game Play Timer Plugin</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>