<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Breakpoint Debugger Commands</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="breakpoint-debugger-commands">
<span id="debugger-breakpoint-list"></span><h1>Breakpoint Debugger Commands</h1>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-bpset"><span class="std std-ref">bpset</span></a></dt><dd><p>sets a breakpoint at &lt;address&gt;</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-bpclear"><span class="std std-ref">bpclear</span></a></dt><dd><p>clears a specific breakpoint or all breakpoints</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-bpdisable"><span class="std std-ref">bpdisable</span></a></dt><dd><p>disables a specific breakpoint or all breakpoints</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-bpenable"><span class="std std-ref">bpenable</span></a></dt><dd><p>enables a specific breakpoint or all breakpoints</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-bplist"><span class="std std-ref">bplist</span></a></dt><dd><p>lists breakpoints</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Breakpoints halt execution and activate the debugger before a CPU
executes an instruction at a particular address.</p>
<section id="bpset">
<span id="debugger-command-bpset"></span><h2>bpset</h2>
<p><strong>bp[set] &lt;address&gt;[:&lt;CPU&gt;][,&lt;condition&gt;[,&lt;action&gt;]]</strong></p>
<p>Sets a new execution breakpoint at the specified <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong>.  The
<strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> may optionally be followed by a colon and a tag or
debugger CPU number to set a breakpoint for a specific CPU.  If no CPU
is specified, the breakpoint will be set for the CPU currently visible
in the debugger.</p>
<p>The optional <strong>&lt;condition&gt;</strong> parameter lets you specify an expression
that will be evaluated each time the breakpoint address is hit.  If the
result of the expression is true (non-zero), the breakpoint will halt
execution; otherwise, execution will continue with no notification.  The
optional <strong>&lt;action&gt;</strong> parameter provides a command to be executed
whenever the breakpoint is hit and the <strong>&lt;condition&gt;</strong> is true.  Note
that you may need to surround the action with braces <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">{</span> <span class="pre">}</span></code> to ensure
commas and semicolons within the command are not interpreted in the
context of the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bpset</span></code> command itself.</p>
<p>Each breakpoint that is set is assigned a numeric index which can be
used to refer to it in other breakpoint commands.  Breakpoint indices
are unique throughout a session.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bp</span> <span class="pre">1234</span></code></dt><dd><p>Set a breakpoint for the visible CPU that will halt execution
whenever the PC is equal to 1234.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bp</span> <span class="pre">23456,a0</span> <span class="pre">==</span> <span class="pre">0</span> <span class="pre">&amp;&amp;</span> <span class="pre">a1</span> <span class="pre">==</span> <span class="pre">0</span></code></dt><dd><p>Set a breakpoint for the visible CPU that will halt execution
whenever the PC is equal to 23456 <em>and</em> the expression
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">a0</span> <span class="pre">==</span> <span class="pre">0</span> <span class="pre">&amp;&amp;</span> <span class="pre">a1</span> <span class="pre">==</span> <span class="pre">0</span></code> is true.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bp</span> <span class="pre">3456:audiocpu,1,{</span> <span class="pre">printf</span> <span class="pre">&quot;A0=%08X\n&quot;,a0</span> <span class="pre">;</span> <span class="pre">g</span> <span class="pre">}</span></code></dt><dd><p>Set a breakpoint for the CPU with the absolute tag path
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:audiocpu</span></code> that will halt execution whenever the PC is equal to
3456.  When this happens, print <strong>A0=&lt;a0val&gt;</strong> to the debugger
console and resume execution.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bp</span> <span class="pre">45678:2,a0==100,{</span> <span class="pre">a0</span> <span class="pre">=</span> <span class="pre">ff</span> <span class="pre">;</span> <span class="pre">g</span> <span class="pre">}</span></code></dt><dd><p>Set a breakpoint on the third CPU in the system (zero-based index)
that will halt execution whenever the PC is equal to 45678 and the
expression <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">a0</span> <span class="pre">==</span> <span class="pre">100</span></code> is true.  When that happens, set <strong>a0</strong> to
ff and resume execution.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">temp0</span> <span class="pre">=</span> <span class="pre">0</span> <span class="pre">;</span> <span class="pre">bp</span> <span class="pre">567890,++temp0</span> <span class="pre">&gt;=</span> <span class="pre">10</span></code></dt><dd><p>Set a breakpoint for the visible CPU that will halt execution
whenever the PC is equal to 567890 and the expression
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">++temp0</span> <span class="pre">&gt;=</span> <span class="pre">10</span></code> is true.  This effectively breaks only after the
breakpoint has been hit sixteen times.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-breakpoint-list"><span class="std std-ref">Breakpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="bpclear">
<span id="debugger-command-bpclear"></span><h2>bpclear</h2>
<p><strong>bpclear [&lt;bpnum&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>Clear breakpoints.  If <strong>&lt;bpnum&gt;</strong> is specified, the breakpoints
referred to will be cleared.  If <strong>&lt;bpnum&gt;</strong> is not specified, all
breakpoints will be cleared.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bpclear</span> <span class="pre">3</span></code></dt><dd><p>Clear the breakpoint with index 3.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bpclear</span></code></dt><dd><p>Clear all breakpoints.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-breakpoint-list"><span class="std std-ref">Breakpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="bpdisable">
<span id="debugger-command-bpdisable"></span><h2>bpdisable</h2>
<p><strong>bpdisable [&lt;bpnum&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>Disable breakpoints.  If <strong>&lt;bpnum&gt;</strong> is specified, the breakpoints
referred to will be disabled.  If <strong>&lt;bpnum&gt;</strong> is not specified, all
breakpoints will be disabled.</p>
<p>Note that disabling a breakpoint does not delete it, it just temporarily
marks the breakpoint as inactive.  Disabled breakpoints will not cause
execution to halt, their associated condition expressions will not be
evaluated, and their associated commands will not be executed.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bpdisable</span> <span class="pre">3</span></code></dt><dd><p>Disable the breakpoint with index 3.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bpdisable</span></code></dt><dd><p>Disable all breakpoints.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-breakpoint-list"><span class="std std-ref">Breakpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="bpenable">
<span id="debugger-command-bpenable"></span><h2>bpenable</h2>
<p><strong>bpenable [&lt;bpnum&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>Enable breakpoints.  If <strong>&lt;bpnum&gt;</strong> is specified, the breakpoint
referred to will be enabled.  If <strong>&lt;bpnum&gt;</strong> is not specified, all
breakpoints will be enabled.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bpenable</span> <span class="pre">3</span></code></dt><dd><p>Enable the breakpoint with index 3.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bpenable</span></code></dt><dd><p>Enable all breakpoints.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-breakpoint-list"><span class="std std-ref">Breakpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="bplist">
<span id="debugger-command-bplist"></span><h2>bplist</h2>
<p><strong>bplist [&lt;CPU&gt;]</strong></p>
<p>List current breakpoints, along with their indices and any associated
conditions or actions.  If no <strong>&lt;CPU&gt;</strong> is specified, breakpoints for
all CPUs in the system will be listed; if a <strong>&lt;CPU&gt;</strong> is specified, only
breakpoints for that CPU will be listed.  The <strong>&lt;CPU&gt;</strong> can be specified
by tag or by debugger CPU number (see <a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for
details).</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bplist</span></code></dt><dd><p>List all breakpoints.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bplist</span> <span class="pre">.</span></code></dt><dd><p>List all breakpoints for the visible CPU.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">bplist</span> <span class="pre">maincpu</span></code></dt><dd><p>List all breakpoints for the CPU with the absolute tag path
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:maincpu</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-breakpoint-list"><span class="std std-ref">Breakpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>