<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Exceptionpoint Debugger Commands</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="exceptionpoint-debugger-commands">
<span id="debugger-exceptionpoint-list"></span><h1>Exceptionpoint Debugger Commands</h1>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-epset"><span class="std std-ref">epset</span></a></dt><dd><p>sets a new exceptionpoint</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-epclear"><span class="std std-ref">epclear</span></a></dt><dd><p>clears a specific exceptionpoint or all exceptionpoints</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-epdisable"><span class="std std-ref">epdisable</span></a></dt><dd><p>disables a specific exceptionpoint or all exceptionpoints</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-epenable"><span class="std std-ref">epenable</span></a></dt><dd><p>enables a specific exceptionpoint or all exceptionpoints</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-eplist"><span class="std std-ref">eplist</span></a></dt><dd><p>lists exceptionpoints</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Exceptionpoints halt execution and activate the debugger when a CPU
raises a particular exception number.</p>
<section id="epset">
<span id="debugger-command-epset"></span><h2>epset</h2>
<p><strong>ep[set] &lt;type&gt;[,&lt;condition&gt;[,&lt;action&gt;]]</strong></p>
<p>Sets a new exceptionpoint for exceptions of type <strong>&lt;type&gt;</strong>.  The
optional <strong>&lt;condition&gt;</strong> parameter lets you specify an expression that
will be evaluated each time the exceptionpoint is hit.  If the result
of the expression is true (non-zero), the exceptionpoint will actually
halt execution at the start of the exception handler; otherwise,
execution will continue with no notification.  The optional <strong>&lt;action&gt;</strong>
parameter provides a command that is executed whenever the
exceptionpoint is hit and the <strong>&lt;condition&gt;</strong> is true.  Note that you
may need to embed the action within braces <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">{</span> <span class="pre">}</span></code> in order to prevent
commas and semicolons from being interpreted as applying to the
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">epset</span></code> command itself.</p>
<p>The numbering of exceptions depends upon the CPU type.  Causes of
exceptions may include internally or externally vectored interrupts,
errors occurring within instructions and system calls.</p>
<p>Each exceptionpoint that is set is assigned an index which can be used
in other exceptionpoint commands to reference this exceptionpoint.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">ep</span> <span class="pre">2</span></code></dt><dd><p>Set an exception that will halt execution whenever the visible CPU
raises exception number 2.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-exceptionpoint-list"><span class="std std-ref">Exceptionpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="epclear">
<span id="debugger-command-epclear"></span><h2>epclear</h2>
<p><strong>epclear [&lt;epnum&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>The epclear command clears exceptionpoints.  If <strong>&lt;epnum&gt;</strong> is
specified, only the requested exceptionpoints are cleared, otherwise
all exceptionpoints are cleared.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">epclear</span> <span class="pre">3</span></code></dt><dd><p>Clear exceptionpoint index 3.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">epclear</span></code></dt><dd><p>Clear all exceptionpoints.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-exceptionpoint-list"><span class="std std-ref">Exceptionpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="epdisable">
<span id="debugger-command-epdisable"></span><h2>epdisable</h2>
<p><strong>epdisable [&lt;epnum&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>The epdisable command disables exceptionpoints.  If <strong>&lt;epnum&gt;</strong> is
specified, only the requested exceptionpoints are disabled, otherwise
all exceptionpoints are disabled.  Note that disabling an
exceptionpoint does not delete it, it just temporarily marks the
exceptionpoint as inactive.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">epdisable</span> <span class="pre">3</span></code></dt><dd><p>Disable exceptionpoint index 3.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">epdisable</span></code></dt><dd><p>Disable all exceptionpoints.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-exceptionpoint-list"><span class="std std-ref">Exceptionpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="epenable">
<span id="debugger-command-epenable"></span><h2>epenable</h2>
<p><strong>epenable [&lt;epnum&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>The epenable command enables exceptionpoints.  If <strong>&lt;epnum&gt;</strong> is
specified, only the requested exceptionpoints are enabled, otherwise
all exceptionpoints are enabled.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">epenable</span> <span class="pre">3</span></code></dt><dd><p>Enable exceptionpoint index 3.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">epenable</span></code></dt><dd><p>Enable all exceptionpoints.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-exceptionpoint-list"><span class="std std-ref">Exceptionpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="eplist">
<span id="debugger-command-eplist"></span><h2>eplist</h2>
<p><strong>eplist</strong></p>
<p>The eplist command lists all the current exceptionpoints, along with
their index and any conditions or actions attached to them.</p>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-exceptionpoint-list"><span class="std std-ref">Exceptionpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>