<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>General Debugger Commands</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="general-debugger-commands">
<span id="debugger-general-list"></span><h1>General Debugger Commands</h1>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-help"><span class="std std-ref">help</span></a></dt><dd><p>displays built-in help in the console</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-do"><span class="std std-ref">do</span></a></dt><dd><p>evaluates the given expression</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-symlist"><span class="std std-ref">symlist</span></a></dt><dd><p>lists registered symbols</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-softreset"><span class="std std-ref">softreset</span></a></dt><dd><p>executes a soft reset</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-hardreset"><span class="std std-ref">hardreset</span></a></dt><dd><p>executes a hard reset</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-print"><span class="std std-ref">print</span></a></dt><dd><p>prints one or more &lt;item&gt;s to the console</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-printf"><span class="std std-ref">printf</span></a></dt><dd><p>prints one or more &lt;item&gt;s to the console using &lt;format&gt;</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-logerror"><span class="std std-ref">logerror</span></a></dt><dd><p>outputs one or more &lt;item&gt;s to the error.log</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-tracelog"><span class="std std-ref">tracelog</span></a></dt><dd><p>outputs one or more &lt;item&gt;s to the trace file using &lt;format&gt;</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-tracesym"><span class="std std-ref">tracesym</span></a></dt><dd><p>outputs one or more &lt;item&gt;s to the trace file</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-history"><span class="std std-ref">history</span></a></dt><dd><p>displays recently visited PC addresses and opcodes</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-trackpc"><span class="std std-ref">trackpc</span></a></dt><dd><p>visually track visited opcodes</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-trackmem"><span class="std std-ref">trackmem</span></a></dt><dd><p>record which PC writes to each memory address</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-pcatmem"><span class="std std-ref">pcatmem</span></a></dt><dd><p>query which PC wrote to a given memory address</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-rewind"><span class="std std-ref">rewind</span></a></dt><dd><p>go back in time by loading the most recent rewind state</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-statesave"><span class="std std-ref">statesave</span></a></dt><dd><p>save a state file for the emulated system</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-stateload"><span class="std std-ref">stateload</span></a></dt><dd><p>load a state file for the emulated system</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-snap"><span class="std std-ref">snap</span></a></dt><dd><p>save a screen snapshot</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-source"><span class="std std-ref">source</span></a></dt><dd><p>read commands from file and executes them one by one</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-time"><span class="std std-ref">time</span></a></dt><dd><p>prints the current machine time to the console</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-quit"><span class="std std-ref">quit</span></a></dt><dd><p>exit the debugger and end the emulation session</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<section id="help">
<span id="debugger-command-help"></span><h2>help</h2>
<p><strong>help [&lt;topic&gt;]</strong></p>
<p>Displays built-in debugger help in the debugger console.  If no
<strong>&lt;topic&gt;</strong> is specified, top-level topics are listed.  Most debugger
commands have correspondingly named help topics.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">help</span></code></dt><dd><p>Lists top-level help topics.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">help</span> <span class="pre">expressions</span></code></dt><dd><p>Displays built-in help for debugger expression syntax.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">help</span> <span class="pre">wpiset</span></code></dt><dd><p>Displays built-in help for the
<a class="reference internal" href="watchpoint.xhtml#debugger-command-wpset"><span class="std std-ref">wpiset</span></a> command.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="do">
<span id="debugger-command-do"></span><h2>do</h2>
<p><strong>do &lt;expression&gt;</strong></p>
<p>The <strong>do</strong> command simply evaluates the supplied expression.  This is
often used to set or modify device state variable (e.g. CPU registers),
or to write to memory.  See <a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-express"><span class="std std-ref">Debugger expression syntax</span></a> for details about
expression syntax.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">do</span> <span class="pre">pc</span> <span class="pre">=</span> <span class="pre">0</span></code></dt><dd><p>Sets the register <strong>pc</strong> to 0.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="symlist">
<span id="debugger-command-symlist"></span><h2>symlist</h2>
<p><strong>symlist [&lt;cpu&gt;]</strong></p>
<p>Lists registered symbols and their values.  If <strong>&lt;cpu&gt;</strong> is not
specified, symbols in the global symbol table are displayed; otherwise,
symbols specific to the device <strong>&lt;cpu&gt;</strong> are displayed.  Symbols are
listed alphabetically.  Read-only symbols are noted.  See
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details on how to specify a CPU.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">symlist</span></code></dt><dd><p>Displays the global symbol table.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">symlist</span> <span class="pre">2</span></code></dt><dd><p>Displays the symbols for the third CPU in the system (zero-based
index).</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">symlist</span> <span class="pre">audiocpu</span></code></dt><dd><p>Displays symbols for the CPU with the absolute tag <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:audiocpu</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="softreset">
<span id="debugger-command-softreset"></span><h2>softreset</h2>
<p><strong>softreset</strong></p>
<p>Executes a soft reset.  This calls the reset member functions of all the
devices in the system (by default, pressing <strong>F3</strong> during emulation has
the same effect).</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">softreset</span></code></dt><dd><p>Executes a soft reset.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="hardreset">
<span id="debugger-command-hardreset"></span><h2>hardreset</h2>
<p><strong>hardreset</strong></p>
<p>Executes a hard reset.  This tears down the emulation session and starts
another session with the same system and options (by default, pressing
<strong>Shift+F3</strong> during emulation has the same effect).  Note that this will
lose history in the debugger console and error log.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">hardreset</span></code></dt><dd><p>Executes a hard reset.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="print">
<span id="debugger-command-print"></span><h2>print</h2>
<p><strong>print &lt;item&gt;[,…]</strong></p>
<p>The <strong>print</strong> command prints the results of one or more expressions to
the debugger console as hexadecimal numbers.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">print</span> <span class="pre">pc</span></code></dt><dd><p>Prints the value of the <strong>pc</strong> register the console as a hex number.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">print</span> <span class="pre">a,b,a+b</span></code></dt><dd><p>Prints <strong>a</strong>, <strong>b</strong>, and the value of <strong>a+b</strong> to the console as hex
numbers.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="printf">
<span id="debugger-command-printf"></span><h2>printf</h2>
<p><strong>printf &lt;format&gt;[,&lt;argument&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>Prints a C-style formatted message to the debugger console.  Only a
very limited subset of format specifiers and escape sequences are
available:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>%c</dt><dd><p>Prints the corresponding argument as an 8-bit character.</p>
</dd>
<dt>%[-][0][&lt;n&gt;]d</dt><dd><p>Prints the corresponding argument as a decimal number with optional
left justification, zero fill and minimum field width.</p>
</dd>
<dt>%[-][0][&lt;n&gt;]o</dt><dd><p>Prints the corresponding argument as an octal number with optional
left justification, zero fill and minimum field width.</p>
</dd>
<dt>%[-][0][&lt;n&gt;]x</dt><dd><p>Prints the corresponding argument as a lowercase hexadecimal number
with optional left justification, zero fill and minimum field width.</p>
</dd>
<dt>%[-][0][&lt;n&gt;]X</dt><dd><p>Prints the corresponding argument as an uppercase hexadecimal number
with optional left justification, zero fill and minimum field width.</p>
</dd>
<dt>%[-][&lt;n&gt;][.[&lt;n&gt;]]s</dt><dd><p>Prints a null-terminated string of 8-bit characters from the address
and address space given by the corresponding argument, with optional
left justification, minimum and maximum field widths.</p>
</dd>
<dt>%%</dt><dd><p>Prints a literal percent symbol.</p>
</dd>
<dt>\n</dt><dd><p>Prints a line break.</p>
</dd>
<dt><strong>\\</strong></dt><dd><p>Prints a literal backslash.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>All other format specifiers are ignored.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">printf</span> <span class="pre">&quot;PC=%04X&quot;,pc</span></code></dt><dd><p>Prints <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PC=&lt;pcval&gt;</span></code> where <strong>&lt;pcval&gt;</strong> is the hexadecimal value of
the <strong>pc</strong> register with a minimum of four digits and zero fill.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">printf</span> <span class="pre">&quot;A=%d,</span> <span class="pre">B=%d\\nC=%d&quot;,a,b,a+b</span></code></dt><dd><p>Prints <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">A=&lt;aval&gt;,</span> <span class="pre">B=&lt;bval&gt;</span></code> on one line, and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">C=&lt;a+bval&gt;</span></code> on a
second line.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="logerror">
<span id="debugger-command-logerror"></span><h2>logerror</h2>
<p><strong>logerror &lt;format&gt;[,&lt;argument&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>Prints a C-style formatted message to the error log.  See
<a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-printf"><span class="std std-ref">printf</span></a> for details about the limited set of
supported format specifiers and escape sequences.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">logerror</span> <span class="pre">&quot;PC=%04X&quot;,pc</span></code></dt><dd><p>Logs <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PC=&lt;pcval&gt;</span></code> where <strong>&lt;pcval&gt;</strong> is the hexadecimal value of
the <strong>pc</strong> register with a minimum of four digits and zero fill.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">logerror</span> <span class="pre">&quot;A=%d,</span> <span class="pre">B=%d\\nC=%d&quot;,a,b,a+b</span></code></dt><dd><p>Logs <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">A=&lt;aval&gt;,</span> <span class="pre">B=&lt;bval&gt;</span></code> on one line, and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">C=&lt;a+bval&gt;</span></code> on a
second line.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="tracelog">
<span id="debugger-command-tracelog"></span><h2>tracelog</h2>
<p><strong>tracelog &lt;format&gt;[,&lt;argument&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>Prints a C-style formatted message to the currently open trace file (see
<a class="reference internal" href="execution.xhtml#debugger-command-trace"><span class="std std-ref">trace</span></a> for more information).  If no trace file
is open, this command has no effect.  See <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-printf"><span class="std std-ref">printf</span></a>
for details about the limited set of supported format specifiers and
escape sequences.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">tracelog</span> <span class="pre">&quot;PC=%04X&quot;,pc</span></code></dt><dd><p>Outputs <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PC=&lt;pcval&gt;</span></code> where <strong>&lt;pcval&gt;</strong> is the hexadecimal value of
the <strong>pc</strong> register with a minimum of four digits and zero fill if a
trace log file is open.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">tracelog</span> <span class="pre">&quot;A=%d,</span> <span class="pre">B=%d\\nC=%d&quot;,a,b,a+b</span></code></dt><dd><p>Outputs <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">A=&lt;aval&gt;,</span> <span class="pre">B=&lt;bval&gt;</span></code> on one line, and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">C=&lt;a+bval&gt;</span></code> on a
second line if a trace log file is open.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="tracesym">
<span id="debugger-command-tracesym"></span><h2>tracesym</h2>
<p><strong>tracesym &lt;item&gt;[,…]</strong></p>
<p>Prints the specified symbols to the currently open trace file (see
<a class="reference internal" href="execution.xhtml#debugger-command-trace"><span class="std std-ref">trace</span></a> for more information).  If no trace file
is open, this command has no effect.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">tracesym</span> <span class="pre">pc</span></code></dt><dd><p>Outputs <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">PC=&lt;pcval&gt;</span></code> where <strong>&lt;pcval&gt;</strong> is the value of the <strong>pc</strong>
register in its default format if a trace log file is open.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="history">
<span id="debugger-command-history"></span><h2>history</h2>
<p><strong>history [&lt;CPU&gt;[,&lt;length&gt;]]</strong></p>
<p>Displays recently visited PC addresses, and disassembly of the
instructions at those addresses.  If present, the first argument selects
the CPU (see <a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details); if no CPU is
specified, the visible CPU is assumed.  The second argument, if present,
limits the maximum number of addresses shown.  Addresses are shown in
order from least to most recently visited.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">history</span> <span class="pre">,5</span></code></dt><dd><p>Displays up to five most recently visited PC addresses and
instructions for the visible CPU.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">history</span> <span class="pre">3</span></code></dt><dd><p>Displays recently visited PC addresses and instructions for the
fourth CPU in the system (zero-based index).</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">history</span> <span class="pre">audiocpu,1</span></code></dt><dd><p>Displays the most recently visited PC address and instruction for
the CPU with the absolute tag <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:audiocpu</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</section>
<section id="trackpc">
<span id="debugger-command-trackpc"></span><h2>trackpc</h2>
<p><strong>trackpc [&lt;enable&gt;[,&lt;CPU&gt;[,&lt;clear&gt;]]]</strong></p>
<p>Turns visited PC address tracking for disassembly views on or off.
Instructions at addresses visited while tracking is on are highlighted
in debugger disassembly views.  The first argument is a Boolean
specifying whether tracking should be turned on or off (defaults to on).
The second argument specifies the CPU to enable or disable tracking for
(see <a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details); if no CPU is specified,
the visible CPU is assumed.  The third argument is a Boolean specifying
whether existing data should be cleared (defaults to false).</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">trackpc</span> <span class="pre">1</span></code></dt><dd><p>Begin or tracking the current CPU’s PC.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">trackpc</span> <span class="pre">1,0,1</span></code></dt><dd><p>Begin or continue tracking PC on the first CPU in the system
(zero-based index), but clear the history tracked so far.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="trackmem">
<span id="debugger-command-trackmem"></span><h2>trackmem</h2>
<p><strong>trackmem [&lt;enable&gt;,[&lt;CPU&gt;,[&lt;clear&gt;]]]</strong></p>
<p>Enables or disables logging the PC address each time a memory address is
written to.  The first argument is a Boolean specifying whether tracking
should be enabled or disabled (defaults to enabled).  The second
argument specifies the CPU to enable or disable tracking for (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details); if no CPU is specified, the
visible CPU is assumed.  The third argument is a Boolean specifying
whether existing data should be cleared (defaults to false).</p>
<p>Use <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-pcatmem"><span class="std std-ref">pcatmem</span></a> to retrieve this data.
Right-clicking a debugger memory view will also display the logged PC
value for the given address in some configurations.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">trackmem</span></code></dt><dd><p>Begin or continue tracking memory writes for the visible CPU.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">trackmem</span> <span class="pre">1,0,1</span></code></dt><dd><p>Begin or continue tracking memory writes for the first CPU in the
system (zero-based index), but clear existing tracking data.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="pcatmem">
<span id="debugger-command-pcatmem"></span><h2>pcatmem</h2>
<p><strong>pcatmem[{d|i|o}] &lt;address&gt;[:&lt;space&gt;]</strong></p>
<p>Returns the PC value at the time the specified address was most recently
written to.  The argument is the requested address, optionally followed
by a colon and a CPU and/or address space (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details).  The optional <strong>d</strong>, <strong>i</strong> or
<strong>o</strong> suffix controls the default address space for the command.</p>
<p>Tracking must be enabled for the data this command uses to be recorded
(see <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-trackmem"><span class="std std-ref">trackmem</span></a>).  Right-clicking a debugger
memory view will also display the logged PC value for the given address
in some configurations.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">pcatmem</span> <span class="pre">400000</span></code></dt><dd><p>Print the PC value when location 400000 in the visible CPU’s program
space was most recently written.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">pcatmem</span> <span class="pre">3bc:io</span></code></dt><dd><p>Print the PC value when location 3bc in the visible CPU’s <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">io</span></code>
space was most recently written.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">pcatmem</span> <span class="pre">1400:audiocpu</span></code></dt><dd><p>Print the PC value when location 1400 in the CPU <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:audiocpu</span></code>’s
program space was most recently written.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="rewind">
<span id="debugger-command-rewind"></span><h2>rewind</h2>
<p><strong>rewind</strong></p>
<p>Loads the most recent RAM-based saved state.  When enabled, rewind
states are saved when <a class="reference internal" href="execution.xhtml#debugger-command-step"><span class="std std-ref">step</span></a>,
<a class="reference internal" href="execution.xhtml#debugger-command-over"><span class="std std-ref">over</span></a> and <a class="reference internal" href="execution.xhtml#debugger-command-out"><span class="std std-ref">out</span></a> commands
are used, storing the machine state as of the moment before stepping.
May be abbreviated to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rw</span></code>.</p>
<p>Consecutively loading rewind states can work like reverse execution.
Depending on which steps forward were taken previously, the behavior can
be similar to GDB's <strong>reverse-stepi</strong> and <strong>reverse-next</strong> commands.
All output for this command is currently echoed into the running machine
window.</p>
<p>Previous memory and PC tracking statistics are cleared.  Actual reverse
execution does not occur.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rewind</span></code></dt><dd><p>Load the previous RAM-based save state.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rw</span></code></dt><dd><p>Abbreviated form of the command.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="statesave">
<span id="debugger-command-statesave"></span><h2>statesave</h2>
<p><strong>statesave &lt;filename&gt;</strong></p>
<p>Creates a save state at the current moment in emulated time.  The state
file is written to the configured save state directory (see the
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-statedirectory"><span class="std std-ref">state_directory</span></a> option), and
the <strong>.sta</strong> extension is automatically appended to the specified file
name.  May be abbreviates to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">ss</span></code>.</p>
<p>All output from this command is currently echoed into the running machine
window.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">statesave</span> <span class="pre">foo</span></code></dt><dd><p>Saves the emulated machine state to the file <strong>foo.sta</strong> in the
configured save state directory.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">ss</span> <span class="pre">bar</span></code></dt><dd><p>Abbreviated form of the command – saves the emulated machine state
to <strong>bar.sta</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="stateload">
<span id="debugger-command-stateload"></span><h2>stateload</h2>
<p><strong>stateload &lt;filename&gt;</strong></p>
<p>Restores a saved state file from disk.  The specified state file is read
from the configured save state directory (see the
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-statedirectory"><span class="std std-ref">state_directory</span></a> option), and the
<strong>.sta</strong> extension is automatically appended to the specified file name.
May be abbreviated to <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">sl</span></code>.</p>
<p>All output for this command is currently echoed into the running machine
window.  Previous memory and PC tracking statistics are cleared.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">stateload</span> <span class="pre">foo</span></code></dt><dd><p>Loads state from file <strong>foo.sta</strong> to the configured save state
directory.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">sl</span> <span class="pre">bar</span></code></dt><dd><p>Abbreviated form of the command – loads the file <strong>bar.sta</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="snap">
<span id="debugger-command-snap"></span><h2>snap</h2>
<p><strong>snap [&lt;filename&gt;[,&lt;scrnum&gt;]]</strong></p>
<p>Takes a snapshot of the emulated video display and saves it to the
configured snapshot directory (see the
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-snapshotdirectory"><span class="std std-ref">snapshot_directory</span></a> option).
If a file name is specified, a single screenshot for the specified
screen is saved using the specified filename (or the first emulated
screen in the system if a screen is not specified).  If a file name is
not specified, the configured snapshot view and file name pattern are
used (see the <a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-snapview"><span class="std std-ref">snapview</span></a> and
<a class="reference internal" href="../commandline/commandline-all.xhtml#mame-commandline-snapname"><span class="std std-ref">snapname</span></a> options).</p>
<p>If a file name is specified, the <strong>.png</strong> extension is automatically
appended.  The screen number is specified as a zero-based index, as
seen in the names of automatically-generated single-screen views in
MAME’s video options menus.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">snap</span></code></dt><dd><p>Takes a snapshot using the configured snapshot view and file name
options.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">snap</span> <span class="pre">shinobi</span></code></dt><dd><p>Takes a snapshot of the first emulated video screen and saves it as
<strong>shinobi.png</strong> in the configured snapshot directory.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="source">
<span id="debugger-command-source"></span><h2>source</h2>
<p><strong>source &lt;filename&gt;</strong></p>
<p>Reads the specified file in text mode and executes each line as a
debugger command.  This is similar to running a shell script or batch
file.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">source</span> <span class="pre">break_and_trace.cmd</span></code></dt><dd><p>Reads and executes debugger commands from <strong>break_and_trace.cmd</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="time">
<span id="debugger-command-time"></span><h2>time</h2>
<p>Prints the total elapsed emulated time to the debugger console.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">time</span></code></dt><dd><p>Prints the elapsed emulated time.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="quit">
<span id="debugger-command-quit"></span><h2>quit</h2>
<p><strong>quit</strong></p>
<p>Closes the debugger and ends the emulation session immediately.  Either
exits MAME or returns to the system selection menu, depending on whether
the system was specified on the command line when starting MAME.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">quit</span></code></dt><dd><p>Exits the emulation session immediately.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-general-list"><span class="std std-ref">General Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>