<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Media Image Debugger Commands</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="media-image-debugger-commands">
<span id="debugger-image-list"></span><h1>Media Image Debugger Commands</h1>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-images"><span class="std std-ref">images</span></a></dt><dd><p>lists all image devices and mounted media images</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-mount"><span class="std std-ref">mount</span></a></dt><dd><p>mounts a media image file to an image device</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-unmount"><span class="std std-ref">unmount</span></a></dt><dd><p>unmounts the media image from a device</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<section id="images">
<span id="debugger-command-images"></span><h2>images</h2>
<p><strong>images</strong></p>
<p>Lists the instance names for media images devices in the system and the
currently mounted media images, if any.  Brief instance names, as
allowed for command line media options, are listed.  Mounted software
list items are displayed as the list name, software item short name, and
part name, separated by colons; other mounted images are displayed as
file names.</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">images</span></code></dt><dd><p>Lists image device instance names and mounted media.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-image-list"><span class="std std-ref">Media Image Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="mount">
<span id="debugger-command-mount"></span><h2>mount</h2>
<p><strong>mount &lt;instance&gt;,&lt;filename&gt;</strong></p>
<p>Mounts a file on a media device.  The device may be specified by its
instance name or brief instance name, as allowed for command line media
options.</p>
<p>Some media devices allow software list items to be mounted using this
command by supplying the short name of the software list item in place
of a filename for the <strong>&lt;filename&gt;</strong> parameter.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mount</span> <span class="pre">flop1,os1xutls.td0</span></code></dt><dd><p>Mount the file <strong>os1xutls.td0</strong> on the media device with instance
name <strong>flop1</strong>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mount</span> <span class="pre">cart,10yard</span></code></dt><dd><p>Mount the software list item with short name <strong>10yard</strong> on the media
device with instance name <strong>cart</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-image-list"><span class="std std-ref">Media Image Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="unmount">
<span id="debugger-command-unmount"></span><h2>unmount</h2>
<p><strong>unmount &lt;instance&gt;</strong></p>
<p>Unmounts the mounted media image (if any) from a device.  The device may
be specified by its instance name or brief instance name, as allowed for
command line media options.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt>unmount cart</dt><dd><p>Unmounts any media image mounted on the device with instance name
<strong>cart</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-image-list"><span class="std std-ref">Media Image Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>