<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Memory Debugger Commands</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="memory-debugger-commands">
<span id="debugger-memory-list"></span><h1>Memory Debugger Commands</h1>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-dasm"><span class="std std-ref">dasm</span></a></dt><dd><p>disassemble code to a file</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-find"><span class="std std-ref">find</span></a></dt><dd><p>search emulated memory for data</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-fill"><span class="std std-ref">fill</span></a></dt><dd><p>fill emulated memory with specified pattern</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-dump"><span class="std std-ref">dump</span></a></dt><dd><p>dump emulated memory to a file as text</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-strdump"><span class="std std-ref">strdump</span></a></dt><dd><p>dump delimited strings from emulated memory to a file</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-save"><span class="std std-ref">save</span></a></dt><dd><p>save binary data from emulated memory to a file</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-saver"><span class="std std-ref">saver</span></a></dt><dd><p>save binary data from a memory region to a file</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-load"><span class="std std-ref">load</span></a></dt><dd><p>load binary data from a file to emulated memory</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-loadr"><span class="std std-ref">loadr</span></a></dt><dd><p>load binary data from a file to a memory region</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-map"><span class="std std-ref">map</span></a></dt><dd><p>map a logical address to the corresponding physical address and
handler</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-memdump"><span class="std std-ref">memdump</span></a></dt><dd><p>dump current memory maps to a file</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<section id="dasm">
<span id="debugger-command-dasm"></span><h2>dasm</h2>
<p><strong>dasm &lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;,&lt;length&gt;[,&lt;opcodes&gt;[,&lt;CPU&gt;]]</strong></p>
<p>Disassembles program memory to the file specified by the <strong>&lt;filename&gt;</strong>
parameter.  The <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> parameter specifies the address to start
disassembling from, and the <strong>&lt;length&gt;</strong> parameter specifies how much
memory to disassemble.  The range <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> through
<strong>&lt;address&gt;+&lt;length&gt;-1</strong>, inclusive, will be disassembled to the file.
By default, raw opcode data is output with each line.  The optional
<strong>&lt;opcodes&gt;</strong> parameter is a Boolean that enables disables this feature.
By default, program memory for the visible CPU is disassembled.  To
disassemble program memory for a different CPU, specify it using the
optional fifth parameter (see <a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details).</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dasm</span> <span class="pre">venture.asm,0,10000</span></code></dt><dd><p>Disassembles addresses 0-ffff for the visible CPU, including raw
opcode data, to the file <strong>venture.asm</strong>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dasm</span> <span class="pre">harddriv.asm,3000,1000,0,2</span></code></dt><dd><p>Disassembles addresses 3000-3fff for the third CPU in the system
(zero-based index), without raw opcode data, to the file
<strong>harddriv.asm</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-memory-list"><span class="std std-ref">Memory Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="find">
<span id="debugger-command-find"></span><h2>find</h2>
<p><strong>f[ind][{d|i|o}] &lt;address&gt;[:&lt;space&gt;],&lt;length&gt;[,&lt;data&gt;[,…]]</strong>
<strong>f[ind] &lt;address&gt;:&lt;memory&gt;.{m|s},&lt;length&gt;[,&lt;data&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>Search through memory for the specified sequence of data.  The
<strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> is the address to begin searching from, optionally
followed by a device and/or address space (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details); the <strong>&lt;length&gt;</strong> specifies
how much memory to search.    If an address space is not specified, the
command suffix sets the address space: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">find</span></code> defaults to the first
address space exposed by the device, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">findd</span></code> defaults to the space
with index 1 (data), <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">findi</span></code> default to the space with index 2 (I/O),
and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">findo</span></code> defaults to the space with index 3 (opcodes).</p>
<p>The <strong>&lt;data&gt;</strong> can either be a quoted string, a numeric value or
expression, or the wildcard character <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">?</span></code>.  By default, strings imply
a byte-sized search; by default non-string data is searched using the
native word size of the address space. To override the search size for
non-string data, you can prefix values with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">b.</span></code> to force byte-sized
search, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">w.</span></code> for word-sized search, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">d.</span></code> for double word-sized
search, and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">q.</span></code> for quadruple word-sized search.  Overrides propagate
to subsequent values, so if you want to search for a sequence of words,
you need only prefix the first value with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">w.</span></code>.  Also note that you
can intermix sizes to perform more complex searches.</p>
<p>The entire range <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> through <strong>&lt;address&gt;+&lt;length&gt;-1</strong>,
inclusive, will be searched for the sequence, and all occurrences will
be displayed.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">find</span> <span class="pre">0,10000,&quot;HIGH</span> <span class="pre">SCORE&quot;,0</span></code></dt><dd><p>Searches the address range 0-ffff in the program space of the
visible CPU for the string “HIGH SCORE” followed by a 0 byte.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">find</span> <span class="pre">300:tms9918a,100,w.abcd,4567</span></code></dt><dd><p>Searches the address range 300-3ff in the first address space
exposed by the device with the absolute tag <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:tms9918a</span></code> for the
word-sized value abcd followed by the word-sized value 4567.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">find</span> <span class="pre">0,8000,&quot;AAR&quot;,d.0,&quot;BEN&quot;,w.0</span></code></dt><dd><p>Searches the address range 0000-7fff for the string “AAR” followed
by a dword-sized 0 followed by the string “BEN”, followed by a
word-sized 0.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-memory-list"><span class="std std-ref">Memory Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="fill">
<span id="debugger-command-fill"></span><h2>fill</h2>
<p><strong>fill[{d|i|o}] &lt;address&gt;[:&lt;space&gt;],&lt;length&gt;[,&lt;data&gt;[,…]]</strong>
<strong>fill &lt;address&gt;:&lt;memory&gt;.{m|s},&lt;length&gt;[,&lt;data&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>Overwrite a block of memory with copies of the supplied data sequence.
The <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> specifies the address to begin writing at, optionally
followed by a device and/or address space (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details); the <strong>&lt;length&gt;</strong> specifies how
much memory to fill.  If an address space is not specified, the command
suffix sets the address space: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">fill</span></code> defaults to the first
address space exposed by the device, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">filld</span></code> defaults to the space
with index 1 (data), <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">filli</span></code> default to the space with index 2 (I/O),
and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">fillo</span></code> defaults to the space with index 3 (opcodes).</p>
<p>The <strong>&lt;data&gt;</strong> can either be a quoted string, or a numeric value or
expression.  By default, non-string data is written using the native
word size of the address space. To override the data size for non-string
data, you can prefix values with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">b.</span></code> to force byte-sized fill, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">w.</span></code>
for word-sized fill, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">d.</span></code> for double word-sized fill, and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">q.</span></code> for
quadruple word-sized fill. Overrides propagate to subsequent values, so
if you want to fill with a series of words, you need only prefix the
first value with <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">w.</span></code>.   Also note that you can intermix sizes to
perform more complex fills.  The fill operation may be truncated if a
page fault occurs or if part of the sequence or string would fall beyond
<strong>&lt;address&gt;+&lt;length&gt;-1</strong>.</p>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-memory-list"><span class="std std-ref">Memory Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="dump">
<span id="debugger-command-dump"></span><h2>dump</h2>
<p><strong>dump[{d|i|o}] &lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;[:&lt;space&gt;],&lt;length&gt;[,&lt;group&gt;[,&lt;ascii&gt;[,&lt;rowsize&gt;]]]</strong>
<strong>dump &lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;:&lt;memory&gt;.{m|s},&lt;length&gt;[,&lt;group&gt;[,&lt;ascii&gt;[,&lt;rowsize&gt;]]]</strong></p>
<p>Dump memory to the text file specified by the <strong>&lt;filename&gt;</strong> parameter.
The <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> specifies the address to start dumping from,
optionally followed by a device and/or address space (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details); the <strong>&lt;length&gt;</strong> specifies how
much memory to dump.  If an address space is not specified, the command
suffix sets the address space: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dump</span></code> defaults to the first
address space exposed by the device, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dumpd</span></code> defaults to the space
with index 1 (data), <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dumpi</span></code> default to the space with index 2 (I/O),
and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dumpo</span></code> defaults to the space with index 3 (opcodes).</p>
<p>The range <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> through <strong>&lt;address&gt;+&lt;length&gt;-1</strong>, inclusive,
will be output to the file.  By default, the data will be output using
the native word size of the address space.  You can override this by
specifying the <strong>&lt;group&gt;</strong> parameter, which can be used to group the
data in 1-, 2-, 4- or 8-byte chunks.  The optional <strong>&lt;ascii&gt;</strong> parameter
is a Boolean value used to enable or disable output of ASCII characters
on the right of each line (enabled by default).  The optional
<strong>&lt;rowsize&gt;</strong> parameter specifies the amount of data on each line in
address units (defaults to 16 bytes).</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dump</span> <span class="pre">venture.dmp,0,10000</span></code></dt><dd><p>Dumps addresses 0-ffff from the program space of the visible CPU in
1-byte chunks, including ASCII data, to the file <strong>venture.dmp</strong>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dumpd</span> <span class="pre">harddriv.dmp,3000:3,1000,4,0</span></code></dt><dd><p>Dumps data memory addresses 3000-3fff from the fourth CPU in the
system (zero-based index) in 4-byte chunks, without ASCII data, to
the file <strong>harddriv.dmp</strong>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">dump</span> <span class="pre">vram.dmp,0:sms_vdp:videoram,4000,1,false,8</span></code></dt><dd><p>Dumps <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">videoram</span></code> space addresses 0000-3fff from the device with
the absolute tag path <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:sms_vdp</span></code> in 1-byte chunks, without ASCII
data, with 8 bytes per line, to the file <strong>vram.dmp</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-memory-list"><span class="std std-ref">Memory Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="strdump">
<span id="debugger-command-strdump"></span><h2>strdump</h2>
<p><strong>strdump[{d|i|o}] &lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;[:&lt;space&gt;],&lt;length&gt;[,&lt;term&gt;]</strong>
<strong>strdump &lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;:&lt;memory&gt;.{m|s},&lt;length&gt;[,&lt;term&gt;]</strong></p>
<p>Dump memory to the text file specified by the <strong>&lt;filename&gt;</strong> parameter.
The <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> specifies the address to start dumping from,
optionally followed by a device and/or address space (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details); the <strong>&lt;length&gt;</strong> specifies how
much memory to dump.  If an address space is not specified, the command
suffix sets the address space: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">strdump</span></code> defaults to the first
address space exposed by the device, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">strdumpd</span></code> defaults to the space
with index 1 (data), <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">strdumpi</span></code> default to the space with index 2
(I/O), and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">strdumpo</span></code> defaults to the space with index 3 (opcodes).</p>
<p>By default, the data will be interpreted as a series of NUL-terminated
(ASCIIZ) strings, the dump will have one string per line, and C-style
escapes sequences will be used for bytes that do not represent printable
ASCII characters.  The optional <strong>&lt;term&gt;</strong> parameter can be used to
specify a different string terminator character.</p>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-memory-list"><span class="std std-ref">Memory Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="save">
<span id="debugger-command-save"></span><h2>save</h2>
<p><strong>save[{d|i|o}] &lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;[:&lt;space&gt;],&lt;length&gt;</strong>
<strong>save &lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;:&lt;memory&gt;.{m|s},&lt;length&gt;</strong></p>
<p>Save raw memory to the binary file specified by the <strong>&lt;filename&gt;</strong>
parameter.  The <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> specifies the address to start saving
from, optionally followed by a device and/or address space (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details); the <strong>&lt;length&gt;</strong> specifies how
much memory to save.  If an address space is not specified, the command
suffix sets the address space: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">save</span></code> defaults to the first address
space exposed by the device, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">saved</span></code> defaults to the space with index
1 (data), <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">savei</span></code> default to the space with index 2 (I/O), and
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">saveo</span></code> defaults to the space with index 3 (opcodes).</p>
<p>The range <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> through <strong>&lt;address&gt;+&lt;length&gt;-1</strong>, inclusive,
will be output to the file.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">save</span> <span class="pre">venture.bin,0,10000</span></code></dt><dd><p>Saves addresses 0-ffff from the program space of the current CPU to
the binary file <strong>venture.bin</strong></p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">saved</span> <span class="pre">harddriv.bin,3000:3,1000</span></code></dt><dd><p>Saves data memory addresses 3000-3fff from the fourth CPU in the
system (zero-based index) to the binary file <strong>harddriv.bin</strong>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">save</span> <span class="pre">vram.bin,0:sms_vdp:videoram,4000</span></code></dt><dd><p>Saves <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">videoram</span></code> space addresses 0000-3fff from the device with
the absolute tag path <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:sms_vdp</span></code> to the binary file <strong>vram.bin</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-memory-list"><span class="std std-ref">Memory Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="saver">
<span id="debugger-command-saver"></span><h2>saver</h2>
<p><strong>saver &lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;,&lt;length&gt;,&lt;region&gt;</strong></p>
<p>Save raw content of memory region specified by the <strong>&lt;region&gt;</strong>
parameter to the binary file specified by the <strong>&lt;filename&gt;</strong> parameter.
Regions tags follow the same rules as device tags (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a>).  The <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> specifies the address to
start saving from, and the <strong>&lt;length&gt;</strong> specifies how much memory to
save.  The range <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> through <strong>&lt;address&gt;+&lt;length&gt;-1</strong>,
inclusive, will be output to the file.</p>
<p>Alternetevely use <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-save"><span class="std std-ref">save</span></a> syntax:
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">save</span> <span class="pre">&lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;:&lt;region&gt;.m,&lt;length&gt;</span></code></p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">saver</span> <span class="pre">data.bin,200,100,:monitor</span></code></dt><dd><p>Saves <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:monitor</span></code> region addresses 200-2ff to the binary file
<strong>data.bin</strong>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">saver</span> <span class="pre">cpurom.bin,1000,400,.</span></code></dt><dd><p>Saves addresses 1000-13ff from the memory region with the same tag
as the visible CPU to the binary file <strong>cpurom.bin</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-memory-list"><span class="std std-ref">Memory Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="load">
<span id="debugger-command-load"></span><h2>load</h2>
<p><strong>load[{d|i|o}] &lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;[:&lt;space&gt;][,&lt;length&gt;]</strong>
<strong>load &lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;:&lt;memory&gt;.{m|s}[,&lt;length&gt;]</strong></p>
<p>Load raw memory from the binary file specified by the <strong>&lt;filename&gt;</strong>
parameter.  The <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> specifies the address to start loading to,
optionally followed by a device and/or address space (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details); the <strong>&lt;length&gt;</strong> specifies how
much memory to load.  If an address space is not specified, the command
suffix sets the address space: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">load</span></code> defaults to the first address
space exposed by the device, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">loadd</span></code> defaults to the space with index
1 (data), <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">loadi</span></code> default to the space with index 2 (I/O), and
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">loado</span></code> defaults to the space with index 3 (opcodes).</p>
<p>The range <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> through <strong>&lt;address&gt;+&lt;length&gt;-1</strong>, inclusive,
will be read in from the file.  If the <strong>&lt;length&gt;</strong> is omitted, if it is
zero, or if it is greater than the total length of the file, the entire
contents of the file will be loaded but no more.</p>
<p>Note that this has the same effect as writing to the address space from
a debugger memory view, or using the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">b&#64;</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">w&#64;</span></code>, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">d&#64;</span></code> or <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">q&#64;</span></code>
memory accessors in debugger expressions.  Read-only memory will not be
overwritten, and writing to I/O addresses may have effects beyond
setting register values.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">load</span> <span class="pre">venture.bin,0,10000</span></code></dt><dd><p>Loads addresses 0-ffff in the program space for the visible CPU from
the binary file <strong>venture.bin</strong>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">loadd</span> <span class="pre">harddriv.bin,3000,1000,3</span></code></dt><dd><p>Loads data memory addresses 3000-3fff in the program space for the
fourth CPU in the system (zero-based index) from the binary file
<strong>harddriv.bin</strong>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">load</span> <span class="pre">vram.bin,0:sms_vdp:videoram</span></code></dt><dd><p>Loads the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">videoram</span></code> space for the device with the absolute tag
path <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:sms_vdp</span></code> starting at address 0000 with the entire content
of the binary file <strong>vram.bin</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-memory-list"><span class="std std-ref">Memory Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="loadr">
<span id="debugger-command-loadr"></span><h2>loadr</h2>
<p><strong>loadr &lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;,&lt;length&gt;,&lt;region&gt;</strong></p>
<p>Load memory in the memory region specified by the <strong>&lt;region&gt;</strong> with raw
data from the binary file specified by the <strong>&lt;filename&gt;</strong> parameter.
Regions tags follow the same rules as device tags (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a>).  The <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong> specifies the address to
start loading to, and the
<strong>&lt;length&gt;</strong> specifies how much memory to load.  The range <strong>&lt;address&gt;</strong>
through <strong>&lt;address&gt;+&lt;length&gt;-1</strong>, inclusive, will be read in from the
file.  If the <strong>&lt;length&gt;</strong> is zero, or is greater than the total length
of the file, the entire contents of the file will be loaded but no more.</p>
<p>Alternetevely use <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-load"><span class="std std-ref">load</span></a> syntax:
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">load</span> <span class="pre">&lt;filename&gt;,&lt;address&gt;:&lt;region&gt;.m[,&lt;length&gt;]</span></code></p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">loadr</span> <span class="pre">data.bin,200,100,:monitor</span></code></dt><dd><p>Loads <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:monitor</span></code> region addresses 200-2ff from the binary file
<strong>data.bin</strong>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">loadr</span> <span class="pre">cpurom.bin,1000,400,.</span></code></dt><dd><p>Loads addresses 1000-13ff in the memory region with the same tag as
the visible CPU from the binary file <strong>cpurom.bin</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-memory-list"><span class="std std-ref">Memory Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="map">
<span id="debugger-command-map"></span><h2>map</h2>
<p><strong>map[{d|i|o}] &lt;address&gt;[:&lt;space&gt;]</strong></p>
<p>Map a logical memory address to the corresponding physical address, as
well as reporting  the handler name.  The address may optionally be
followed by a colon and device and/or address space (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details).  If an address space is not
specified, the command suffix sets the address space: <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">map</span></code> defaults
to the first address space exposed by the device, <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mapd</span></code> defaults to
the space with index 1 (data), <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mapi</span></code> default to the space with index
2 (I/O), and <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">mapo</span></code> defaults to the space with index 3 (opcodes).</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">map</span> <span class="pre">152d0</span></code></dt><dd><p>Gives the physical address and handler name for logical address
152d0 in program memory for the visible CPU.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">map</span> <span class="pre">107:sms_vdp</span></code></dt><dd><p>Gives the physical address and handler name for logical address 107
in the first address space for the device with the absolute tag path
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:sms_vdp</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-memory-list"><span class="std std-ref">Memory Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="memdump">
<span id="debugger-command-memdump"></span><h2>memdump</h2>
<p><strong>memdump [&lt;filename&gt;,[&lt;device&gt;]]</strong></p>
<p>Dumps the current memory maps to the file specified by <strong>&lt;filename&gt;</strong>,
or <strong>memdump.log</strong> if omitted.  If <strong>&lt;device&gt;</strong> is specified (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a>), only memory maps for the part of the device
tree rooted at this device will be dumped.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">memdump</span> <span class="pre">mylog.log</span></code></dt><dd><p>Dumps memory maps for all devices in the system to the file
<strong>mylog.log</strong>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">memdump</span></code></dt><dd><p>Dumps memory maps for all devices in the system to the file
<strong>memdump.log</strong>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">memdump</span> <span class="pre">audiomaps.log,audiopcb</span></code></dt><dd><p>Dumps memory maps for the device with the absolute tag path
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:audiopcb</span></code> and all its child devices to the file
<strong>audiomaps.log</strong>.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">memdump</span> <span class="pre">mylog.log,1</span></code></dt><dd><p>Dumps memory maps for the second CPU device in the system
(zero-based index) and all its child devices to the file
<strong>mylog.log</strong>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-memory-list"><span class="std std-ref">Memory Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>