<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" /><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <title>Registerpoint Debugger Commands</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/epub.css" /> 
  </head><body>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <section id="registerpoint-debugger-commands">
<span id="debugger-registerpoints-list"></span><h1>Registerpoint Debugger Commands</h1>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-rpset"><span class="std std-ref">rpset</span></a></dt><dd><p>sets a registerpoint to trigger on a condition</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-rpclear"><span class="std std-ref">rpclear</span></a></dt><dd><p>clears registerpoints</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-rpdisable"><span class="std std-ref">rpdisable</span></a></dt><dd><p>disables a registerpoint</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-rpenable"><span class="std std-ref">rpenable</span></a></dt><dd><p>enables registerpoints</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-command-rplist"><span class="std std-ref">rplist</span></a></dt><dd><p>lists registerpoints</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Registerpoints evaluate an expression each time a CPU executes an
instruction and halt execution and activate the debugger if the result
is true (non-zero).</p>
<section id="rpset">
<span id="debugger-command-rpset"></span><h2>rpset</h2>
<p><strong>rp[set] &lt;condition&gt;[,&lt;action&gt;]</strong></p>
<p>Sets a new registerpoint which will be triggered when the expression
supplied as the <strong>&lt;condition&gt;</strong> evaluates to true (non-zero).  Note that
the condition may need to be surrounded with braces <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">{</span> <span class="pre">}</span></code> to prevent
it from being interpreted as an assignment.  The optional <strong>&lt;action&gt;</strong>
parameter provides a command to be executed whenever the registerpoint
is triggered.  Note that you may need to surround the action with braces
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">{</span> <span class="pre">}</span></code> to ensure commas and semicolons within the command are not
interpreted in the context of the <code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rpset</span></code> command itself.</p>
<p>Each registerpoint that is set is assigned a numeric index which can be
used to refer to it in other registerpoint commands.  Registerpoint
indices are unique throughout a session.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rp</span> <span class="pre">{PC==150}</span></code></dt><dd><p>Set a registerpoint that will halt execution whenever the <strong>PC</strong>
register equals 150.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">temp0=0;</span> <span class="pre">rp</span> <span class="pre">{PC==150},{temp0++;</span> <span class="pre">g}</span></code></dt><dd><p>Set a registerpoint that will increment the variable <strong>temp0</strong>
whenever the <strong>PC</strong> register equals 150.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rp</span> <span class="pre">{temp0==5}</span></code></dt><dd><p>Set a registerpoint that will halt execution whenever the <strong>temp0</strong>
variable equals 5.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-registerpoints-list"><span class="std std-ref">Registerpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="rpclear">
<span id="debugger-command-rpclear"></span><h2>rpclear</h2>
<p><strong>rpclear [&lt;rpnum&gt;,[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>Clears registerpoints.  If <strong>&lt;rpnum&gt;</strong> is specified, the registerpoints
referred to will be cleared.  If <strong>&lt;rpnum&gt;</strong> is not specified, all
registerpoints will be cleared.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rpclear</span> <span class="pre">3</span></code></dt><dd><p>Clear the registerpoint with index 3.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rpclear</span></code></dt><dd><p>Clear all registerpoints.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-registerpoints-list"><span class="std std-ref">Registerpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="rpdisable">
<span id="debugger-command-rpdisable"></span><h2>rpdisable</h2>
<p><strong>rpdisable [&lt;rpnum&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>Disables registerpoints.  If <strong>&lt;rpnum&gt;</strong> is specified, the
registerpoints referred to will be disabled.  If <strong>&lt;rpnum&gt;</strong> is not
specified, all registerpoints will be disabled.</p>
<p>Note that disabling a registerpoint does not delete it, it just
temporarily marks the registerpoint as inactive.  Disabled
registerpoints will not cause execution to halt, their condition
expressions will not be evaluated, and their associated commands will
not be executed.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rpdisable</span> <span class="pre">3</span></code></dt><dd><p>Disable the registerpoint with index 3.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rpdisable</span></code></dt><dd><p>Disable all registerpoints.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-registerpoints-list"><span class="std std-ref">Registerpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="rpenable">
<span id="debugger-command-rpenable"></span><h2>rpenable</h2>
<p><strong>rpenable [&lt;rpnum&gt;[,…]]</strong></p>
<p>Enables registerpoints.  If <strong>&lt;rpnum&gt;</strong> is specified, the registerpoints
referred to will be enabled.  If <strong>&lt;rpnum&gt;</strong> is not specified, all
registerpoints will be enabled.</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rpenable</span> <span class="pre">3</span></code></dt><dd><p>Enable the registerpoint with index 3.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rpenable</span></code></dt><dd><p>Enable all registerpoints.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-registerpoints-list"><span class="std std-ref">Registerpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
<section id="rplist">
<span id="debugger-command-rplist"></span><h2>rplist</h2>
<p><strong>rplist [&lt;CPU&gt;]</strong></p>
<p>List current registerpoints, along with their indices and conditions,
and any associated actions.  If no <strong>&lt;CPU&gt;</strong> is specified,
registerpoints for all CPUs in the system will be listed; if a <strong>&lt;CPU&gt;</strong>
is specified, only registerpoints for that CPU will be listed.  The
<strong>&lt;CPU&gt;</strong> can be specified by tag or by debugger CPU number (see
<a class="reference internal" href="index.xhtml#debugger-devicespec"><span class="std std-ref">Specifying devices and address spaces</span></a> for details).</p>
<p>Examples:</p>
<dl class="simple">
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rplist</span></code></dt><dd><p>List all registerpoints.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rplist</span> <span class="pre">.</span></code></dt><dd><p>List all registerpoints for the visible CPU.</p>
</dd>
<dt><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rplist</span> <span class="pre">maincpu</span></code></dt><dd><p>List all registerpoints for the CPU with the absolute tag path
<code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">:maincpu</span></code>.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
<p>Back to <a class="reference internal" href="#debugger-registerpoints-list"><span class="std std-ref">Registerpoint Debugger Commands</span></a></p>
</section>
</section>


            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>